other hand if he says, You give me 5% of everything and you don't get a credit for your
basic bread, that's a different story. That's unfair. Right? Right. Yeo. Okay. Okay. Which
Thank you, George. Okay. See you next week. Next month. Yes. Thank you. Have a great

evening. You too. Thanks so much. Bye Bye now. Bye bye for now. Thanks, George. Bye.
JO

JO

JO

different situation you don't know you don't know exactly what to do risk that you run

42:27

Yeah, | think the fear is they say okay, you know, these are wood windows and this wood

comes from this

42:34

don't don't don't try to figure out what some person Alright, some person in the is
interested in a landmark building or heritage building is going to tell you what to do in all
probability, they won't even think of you they won't even look at it they'll never go back to
the property unless you tell them you want to do something. So if you come down to say
fine it chooses this this building's got wood | want to change the wood to steel all they'll
come back to you. County you can they'll tell you but in the absence of you pushing it
you're not going to hear from that's typical landmark oh god probably the biggest
example is a that | know of is Donald’s mera Lago in your one issue is with this place in
Florida, like that. That's bland. That's that’s heritage building landmark. You can't change
a thing. At this, you know how many things you've changed. But you know, he has to talk
to so he says fine, | want to build this Well, maybe, maybe yes, maybe no. Well, how about
you and you work it out. Versus | want to ballroom 8000 feet they still much is good. You
need 4000 feet because that's only water. Okay, but you got to figure the people that
make the decision are idiots it's only what they think should be done to preserve the
heritage or the particular landmark building of what | do. bears no resemblance to logic. It
looks nice to have red paint painted red. | want to change it from Red | want to change it
to pink all you can't you got to leave it red because it was red for all these years. You have
to live with it but you can. And not only that, there's a certain advantage to having live
with it. So they come back and say hey, change the color from from red to pink right? |
don't have to because look at all the years it’s been red. So that works to your advantage.
They can force you to make changes they can stop you from making changes. Okay,

what's next? Yep.

45:08

So | guess there are. So there's a couple of structures on the property, a historic barn, and
a structure that has laid out what's the color of the barn? It's on. It's unpainted. Ah, okay.
It's unpainted. raw wood. It’s raw wood, wood. That's great. So | guess, but well, it isn’t it
isn't. So then the question is, at what point are we under an obligation? You know, if,

because it’s exposed to the elements? Yeah. At what point are we under the obligation to
JO

JO

JO

JO

21:21

Yeah, | think as far as | mean, the attorney didn't say anything about there being any
issues as far as the deed transfer, but

21ST

lawyers make their livelihood on words and changes. That's what it does. That's what they
do. They don't make their livelihood on because it's a good deal or a bad deal for the
client. They don't understand that most of most of them. So don't don't put heavy reliance
on words, worn lines on the product, but | will | think you ought to meet the customer. face
to face. That's all you say, do you say to the two lawyers Look, why don't we get we go
face to face on the buyer. And here's the seller, and let's see if we can't resolve everything.
And chances are the work they don't want to do that, because it takes away from them.
From the job. | understand it's a it’s the as far as the brokers are concerned, the seller tells
his client, this is the best price you can get. Don't expect to get any more. It's fantastic. The
buyers broker says this is a steal. And they try to get the two together to agree on what
the final result is. But that's the job to convince the other side that what you're doing
makes sense. But that's just the nature of equations. Okay, what's fun? Thank you. You're,
you're the second question.

23:15

| do. Question is back to that, that ongoing legal matter that you guys have helped me
out with with that crooked property management company. So just as a quick recap, they
they sued two of my companies, before | initiated the countersuit, they sued two of my
companies last year for for what they thought was construction costs that were owed to
them from a couple houses that they were managing. And last week, they dropped to the
lawsuits without prejudice, just out of nowhere. My attorney is still working on filing the the
larger countersuit against that management company that's supposed to be completed
by the end of this month. To complicate things, so I'm in the middle of a refinance right
now. At this point, this point by the end of the month, how long does it take to draw a
plane complaint? It’s taken some time. Well, | had to get with my animals. My attorney
said that he wanted a detailed summary of the specific damages, like the vacancy, the
construction costs, the markups, property management fees and all that and when we

finally got it to him

24:31
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

39:38

Yeah. What we was there as long as you're willing to leave it there. How about a
guaranteed return on the security 4% 3% something like that. That's a good idea. Let

them deposit in a bank or in a trust line.

40:04

Or if we define a milestone that says, you know, upon achieving a certain milestone, then
the security deposit gets applied to rent or whatever you got. Absolutely. Okay. Okay. And
then the last thing that they've asked for, which is reasonably standard under triple net
leases, is they want to make us responsible for the maintenance of the property in its
entirety. But there’s a number of heritage buildings on the property. And, of course,
number one, heritage buildings, so they're under conservation, because their historic
building, so the repair and maintenance of the heritage building is can be tenfold what it
might be under under normal circumstances. So it feels like if we agree to that, we're

we're agreeing almost to a blank check. In terms we agree,

40:53

| would, | would agree to it. That's good. It goes with the territory. You'll figure out at that
point, whatever it is, it's figured it’s it's there don't don't think it's gonna be higher or lesser
what's going to be its normal maintenance, normal, main superstructure we can get to
happen to build. You got to pay for it. That's fine. | wouldn't make an issue of it. Because if
you can't figure it out, how much more is it going to cost you to maintain a heritage
structure? You don't know the answer? True? If anything, so you take it the triple a triple
net lease, any any cost of improvements goes to the tenant, whatever it may be. Landlord
pays nothing. | wouldn't | wouldn't. | wouldn't worry about putting that on a table. It’s too
It's too nebulous.

41:50

Now what about some of the restrictions George that are placed sometimes on our
heritage buildings, but even pink color? And so what? For a heritage building

41:59

Hey, that’s what it is. You have to decide can you live with it? The answer is yes. You have

to you have no choice whether it's enforced or who's going to enforce it, this is an entirely
JO

JO

JO

JO

amendment on paper without amending the drawings. But if there is a problem down the

road, it does leave the potential for dispute.

32:07

Potential losers feel whatever problem comes up as a result of the changes in the
specifications. If you're willing to go through belongs to the contractor, not you. That's not
your it's not your problem. You're making you're making the contractors like better so he's
saving saving some money is ordinarily that would have been would have been spent.
Now you can figure out whether or not he’s entitled to something being the percentage
that he gets on the total cost of construction. Village, | don't know how the contract we
read. But if, in fact, there is a change there, you're the cost now becomes less based on
what you're doing. And his fee becomes less because the total cost of construction is last.

Maybe you give something some adjustment of that you understand? Yeah, yeah.

33:07

Well, you know, I'm conscious of the fact that you know, that this was structured as a fixed
price contract, because, of course, that’s what the lender requires, in order to fund the
loan. And | know we've discussed the structure those contracts, that fixed price on the high
side, not on the low side. Right. Yeah. Yeah, guaranteed maximum price, correct? Yeah.
Correct. Okay. But now, | mean, they're clearly over, they're not gonna, they're not gonna

come in under budget.

33:35

Well, that's it, that's it their problem if they and if they've made wrong videotape, how
many times you've been something went wrong, as part of the cost of doing business,
now, you're nice enough to help them out and say, Okay, | can make some changes, which
will bring you closer to the, to the price to the actual cost that you're going to put in. But
that's your grip, that's for tutors on your part, you have every right to say build it

according to what we agreed to.

34:01

Well, it but it’s also practice, it's also being pragmatic as well, because like we've talked
about in the past a GC if their margin is getting squeezed or routed down to zero, they're

going to find ways basically, to pull quality out of the project in places where you can't see
JO

JO

JO

JO

it. Right in order to protect their margin. So we want to protect that when you

34:21

do it. So you just voice you negotiate, you come up with a settlement, as the this is who
gets wiped clean as a result of the savings. No problem. It’s just a negotiation. You're,
you're two people trying to solve a particular problem that was unforeseen, namely that
the cost of construction was going to be higher than the bid. You said how can you help
me and you call up how you help me? Okay, typical, typical negotiation of a building
contract. This comes up when there are extra does this have to be? Are you living They
need something. So they can expect that on every construction deal you got, it’s going to

happen. Something was unforeseen, either on the plus side or the minus side.

39:15

Okay, that makes sense. Okay. What's next? What else have we got? We have a 25 year
ground lease for commercial project. And we as part of the negotiation of that lease, we
asked for a rent concession at the start of the lease, we put a number of triggers in that in
that escalation of rents. Right. Now, of course, we're in the in the COVID-19. environment,
we said we want based on these certain events, we this is a signed lease not yet
negotiated. Okay. Okay. Why 25 years? It's five years with five lifetime, Why 25? New

Rules coming up? 50 years? Why not? 99 years? Yeah. So so it's five options to renew.

36:18

| had to get a five options through No, no. Five options to renew. Okay. So but the most
you got is 25 years? Correct. You should have more. If you're going to build something and
do the cost of construction, that is going to be there that you're building something, why
only 25 years? Why not 50 years when the average ground lease runs? 95 years, 99 years?
We certainly could go longer. But when you go longer, it's a question of whether the owner
of the property goes longer, right doesn’t make a difference with it or options or not.
That's fine. The options only add to the price or he's going to have it But meanwhile, you

should have more options. Okay.

37:03

Okay, that makes sense. Yeah. Now, in exchange for some of these concessions at the

front end, we've we've said, Alright, we're willing, once we're up and running, and we're
JO

JO

And even some of the neighbors of the community meeting, you know, said one, one, can
we buy one? Any thoughts on how we could? Or how he could persuade council to
consider the higher density product offering? | mean, this is a negotiation politician.
Politicians, as you know, don't necessarily always speak. They don't necessarily respond to

reason.

10:52

Yes, true. That's true. They don't. The this situation that we're talking about is, is not a
typical, it's typical, you're going to get people that are on the board or the zoning
municipality, and they have their own ideas of what should be done with a particular
piece of property, and how it should be developed. And you have to live with that. One of
the things that could be considered is giving a bonus of some kind back to the
municipality say, Fine. How about if | build a park or playground for kids, that wouldn't be
there before you now open it to the entire area. So if you give them something that
wouldn't have ordinarily, they may consider it's worth changing the density to get the
publicity of look, we have part of the player park or a playground or some place for dogs,
whatever it is, it might work in the neighborhood. So you throw something in and say,
What can you do? It is | understand you don't like the density? But how about it? Is that our
values? Do we get something else that you're trying to do? | may sponsor a park, or
whatever it is. He's grow something in that offsets the problem. If not, you're going to have
to live live with it and build in accordance with the code. But this happens constantly.
They change regulations, they change zoning. Previously, you could zone the one one
house to an acre, and now all of a sudden they change it to one house in three acres. So
be it. You have the right to do it.

12:37

| think | think that's a good idea. One of the things that we're hearing out of HUD in
Washington, is this notion, if you go back to the early 1900s, | think 1913 is the date that
sticks in my head. There were laws that were implemented specifically to prohibit
segregation. And those got updated over the decades and become became more and
more stringent. There's a move afoot that basically says that the zoning code, in essence
represents just another form of segregation, because it's creating an economic barrier by
saying, Well, you know, these properties are zoned r1 residential. Tenants can't move in
here. So we're creating segregation that way, but just calling it by different name. And that
maybe Washington is going to play a role in outright banning that residential zoning in
order to open things up and make it a little bit more uniform. Any thoughts as to whether
that
JO

JO

JO

JO

16:24

this good question. But | can tell you some of the some of the best deals that were ever
made, | got the worst contract in the world over really, but it turned out to be a big deal.
It's a some I've had situations you guys this is the contract don't change one word. If you
like to deal do it, forget the contract. If you don't like the deal, don't do it in anyway. But
this is a this is really a situation between two lawyers. Alright, now what it is, | assume that
the contract you're going to put up some kind of a deposit and a closing at a later date.
Correct? Good. So the what you deal with employed, make them deposit as minimal as
possible. And then don't close unless you unless you get wherever you find objectionable
in the contract, get it resolved at the closing. Most of the time, it's just a dispute between
two lawyers. And usually what happens is the contract is me is relatively unimportant. It's
it's what to the buyer and the seller really want to do. If the seller wants to sell, he’s going
to tell his lawyer Hey, do the deal. Same way if you represent if you're the buyer, and
you're lawyers, because you really want to do the deal. I've had situations where lawyers
couldn't agree on a contract at this. And | said, Okay, why don't we go right to title? I'll
show up with the $500,000. You just give me the deed and his work. Worked? Well. |
needed a title report. Forget all the all the everything else that’s involved. So it depends
on on the property and the situation. If you feel strongly about it on the technicalities,
don't buy it. But my basic gut reaction over years, don't listen to the lawyers. The lawyers
are not business people. They're lawyers. And that sounds sad for you to say I've been
proud a pregnancy lawyer for what the 60 years. But rendus amount of deals for wedding

get the contract | really would like to something you got to decide for yourself.

18:39

Okay. Yeah, another concern answer, as usual. Great advice.

18:50

Thank you. So SAP on that one. It sounds like getting the title report is the is one of the
key items. Yeah, the title report and the environmental. Yeah. are key.

19:04

Yeah, and he does have flexibility on that it’s. So | think that would given us enough time

to do due diligence and make sure titles clear from title company,
JO

JO

JO

where it was especially. But interesting lives, especially if you left it in place, you didn't
have to take it out. Right, if it was in a wall, unless you tore up the wall. Now the same
thing was would would lead into feeling yet if in fact, you've got lead the problem with
lead in pipes, you have to change the price because the lead creates a hazard. So in the

absence of creating a hazard, don't leave it on. Okay. not okay. But that's the way it is it is

07:48

we have a consulting client of mine recently encountered a situation where they have a
building inspector, that is actually was coming out with an on site decision that did not
comply with the code. But the building department was not willing to overrule the
inspector and it was driving a tremendous amount of cost increase. situation, you know,
very, very similar kind of situation. Here’s an unexpected change. It's driving cost. And it's

not in the budget, of course. How would you handle a situation like that? It's it’s,

08:27

of course, the solution is that you can go to a go to court and get the thing resolved. But it
takes a tremendous it takes time to do it and money to do it. Other than that, it bring as
much pressure as you can on the building department to override the inspector or get
hold of the inspector and say look what you're doing. You're adding you make your here's
an item or beautiful area construction going to make a lot of money for the city got to
pay taxes a year here holding it up. But anytime that you run a file afoul of a regulation of
a community or a city, you got that problem. You're gonna have people think arbitrarily.
Okay.

09:18

Well, let's go to some of our some of the questions. This first question comes from Amy.
And she's actually on her way as we speak to a city council meeting, and really has to do
with negotiation. So this is a community that's in a suburb of Boise, Idaho. For the design
of a 46 acre residential subdivision. It’s directly across the street from a brand new high
school. Some of the members of the city council are opposed to density. And if you look at
the city as it exists today, it's overwhelmingly low density. They haven't allowed much in
the way of any multifamily product in the city at all and You know, some city councilors
are saying just build the entire subdivision low density, three homes per acre. And that's
the proposal from the team is to do the majority the 38 acres as that low density product.
And the remaining eight acres, one street as a medium density townhouse product, at

about nine units per acre, is clearly demand for that higher density product in the market.
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

52:24

No, no, no, no, | say percentage, but it gets the percentage but support the percentage
comes over after you made the movie The basic? No, it says he say 6% of what what your
basic right if you're refreshing rent was $50,000. All right, at what point is a 6% locked in,
figure out what the interest would be on the $50,000 6% whatever it is.

527'50

It's right now they're saying 7% on revenue on revenue.

52:55

As long as it's fine, as long as it doesn't cost you more than basic, then what it is if you had
the basic rent was so in this case, in this case, it was substantially more like your painting
budget. Before you put you're only paying the difference between that what you're paying
what the rent is, that's fine. No, you're saying if if | didn't have a good good year, I'll give
you the basic rent. If | have a great year, I'll give you the basic rent plus a percentage of
the excess. So you have to figure it over the excess not offer the basic rent. But the but the
numbers effect the tied in to the to the basic rent. Look, when | say tied in, you say okay,
I'm paying you $30,000 Alright, and I'll pay you 5% of everything. But they get credit for
the first 30,000 you understand you're not paying closing paying double. So as long as
you're entitled to you get a credit for what you what you've already what you're already
paying, you pay the excess because you're making more money. That's fine. But not a not
a double double hit. Got it? Okay, got it.

54:13

Oh, there should be a provision for wording is what you're saying George to be sure. Yep.

54:18

Yeah, that's easy. That's a that’s that’s that's that's no big deal. To say | just point out I'll
pay you 5% of everything over a certain amount and the old certain amount, because
whatever would be to get the 5% to give you the basic right. Okay, that's fine. There's no
problem with that. That's that that's not that’s not that a typical what the landlord is
saying if, if you're you're doing better than we had anticipated on my property, give me
give me something back. That's fine. As far as negotiate, I'm not saying you have to get

into it, but it’s not a not a The terrible negotiating ploy if it says this way if he If on the
JO

JO

JO

especially this was you can leave it there. No, you're not going to have to retrofit it's
already grandfathered in. When it deals with new construction or renovation. Yeah, you
may there may be some expenses, depending upon what what they require now has to be
done to comply with code. But | would over a long period of time, | wouldn't, | wouldn't
think too much major, major expenditure, major thing and understand every building is
going to have to do it. So the same same way there to be competitive, you're going to
have to bring it up to call the Green Deal or close to it on new ones. But | wouldn't put too
much stock in it because | think it's over. It's over, played at the present time. There's a lot
of discussion. That sounds good. And we look at it but it theoretically it’s fine. But in

practicality, it doesn't make too much sense.

02:32

So would you wait for these for these regulations to play out before?

02:39

No, does it gonna change every day? Get a new legislator or what had to understand
legislation takes a long period of time. There's a lot of discussions. Right. And also that the
point isn't, as far as the real estate industry is concerned, it's a very strong industry, which
gives a tremendous amount of money to politicians. You're not about to upset that. That
applecart voluntarily, that this they'll hold back on it whenever you do say, we will say it,
yeah, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're going to, but when the practical

when the rubber hits the road, they're going to have to change what they say into logical,
logical things would you want, which | don’t think you'll see. It's not it’s not too great to to
change the filters on an air conditioning system, where to put in different type vehicles.
That's normal. Sure, it is what you put in five years ago, you're not going to put in today
they're always updating. So, you know, I, it sounds good, sounds threatening, | wouldn't be
concerned about it as much as a lot of other people are. I've seen it all. When they took us
but when they say you can't put a specialist in the building can’t put fire up, we can't do alll

of these things. Yeah, building codes will change.

03:56

Okay, makes sense. Makes sense. So | mean, really, it comes down to just having a
sufficient buffer in your financials and making sure that you know, you can absorb that if,

if these changes bring you additional cost at some point midway through a project.
JO

JO

JO

JO

hoodsport The first thing is in the papers, he doesn't need it. That's proof. You don't need it
for the papers to do it. You're just getting tell him basically what it is putting any numbers
you want, as to how much you lost and how it's been and how it's affected you when the
time comes. If and when you go to trial, then then you'll you'll figure out exactly what it is
you're presented to the judge or the jury, and it doesn’t have to match what you said.

Because you're going to talk in generalities. You're not going to talk in specific

25:02

Okay. Here's the thing. | think the the attorney was also looking for my attorney rather he
was looking for the just the hard numbers. Because he he's open to the idea of taking on

contingency. He just wanted to get an idea as far as

25°17

like giving numbers. Okay. Hi. When are you? If | was filing a complaint and | claim for
damages, | did one thing | added a lot of zeros. Okay, so if so if I'm really looking for
50,000 is from 50 million. Let's do that other side have struck, how does he get to 50
million? We'll figure it out. | never, never intended to get to it. But before trial, I'll bring it
down to a realistic number. Okay, the legal papers and the summons and complaint,
basically, are nearly negotiating ploys. When you get to trial before a judge or a jury, then
it's beyond ploys, you got to prove things. And the fact that you said once | was looking for
5 million, but now I'm taking 500,000 nobody's gonna say Heck, why are you doing less?
I've refigured by numbers, Your Honor. And it turns out to be | was was incorrect. | thought
it was much more. Don't worry about it. You're not a trial? Probably gets settled before
you even see the courthouse. Okay. Yeah, that's very helpful. Yeah, helpful. But don't don't
don't don't do your case. Now, you know, you probably never get to the court. It'll be
settled. Right?

26:44

Well, this specific question was more of an update on that. So that same ongoing issue,
rather. So that management company, they dropped to the lawsuits for the to recoup the

construction costs. And I'm, I'm doing a refinance on the same subject property.

27:07

| understand where you're coming from, at this point. But this should all be handled
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

between you and your lawyer. | can't give you a give you advice on what's going on or
what what tactics to use, you have to use a refinance. You'll have to figure out how you're
going to get around it. Okay, you see what the bank would what the bank wants on the
refinance? What are they saying? What are you gonna do? He says, some way of solving
it.

27:33

All right, yeah. | wasn't sure if there would be a specific strategy to it. But | do have a

chronology, there is a

27:38

test point, you have to know what the problem is in order to come up with a specific

strategy. Got it? Okay, thank you. Okay, what's next?

27:52

Okay, next, we have don't see Gord on the line. Who's gonna ask the questions, Chris are

pretty.

28:01

Pretty exciting. All right. Hi, George, nice to meet you, me and my two partners, we're
located in Ontario. So we have identified a prime location in Hamilton, Ontario, for
redevelopment, two high rise condos and apartments. There's a variety of existing uses
along the street, including church sites, older low rise apartments, older single storey
commercial properties, as well as some detached homes for land assembly. So what
strategy would you employ to approach these property owners? Given that in person
contact may not be feasible during these times? And how might your approach differ for

the various property types?

28:47

Not just a question of knowledge? It’s a question of whether or not the the owners of the
property you want to sell now may be a perfect opportunity they may want to sell
because of what's going on in the world today. So they say maybe it's a good time you're

going to get you're going to give them cash or you're going to give them a substantial
Ollee

[UPDATED] PC - February 2021 -
Mastermind with George Ross

a Thu, 9/94:08PM @ 55:43

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

building, property, contract, rent, paying, construction, problem, question, seller, point, deposit,

negotiation, lease, build, situation, put, structure, george, milestone, percentage

JO

JO

JO

00:08

Hi, how are you? Fantastic. How are you? Good. | didn't get a chance really to go over the

questions, but we'll handle them anyway. Okay.

00:16

Okay, well, we have everyone still joining. So let's dive right in. Okay, so George, | guess
the first one. You know, we're seeing a lot of changes happening in terms of jurisdictional
regulations and wondering what your perspective is, you know, for example, the latest
New York State, is they're talking about prohibiting the installation of new natural gas
pipes for new construction, prohibiting the upgrade of natural gas pipes and meters for
existing installations. Which, you know, for new construction, obviously, you got to come
up with something new and presumably environmentally more friendly than burning
natural gas or any fossil fuel. Or if it's an existing redevelopment redesign of the entire h
vac system. Have you ever encountered a situation where you've simply said, Okay,

enough is enough? I'm moving to Texas, or Florida or Arizona, right?

01:13

You think it's not going to be in Texas or Arizona? Well, the big cities always have as the
changes that take place, they were all there any building code has changed dramatically
over a period of time, depending upon what it is that they decided to talk in, they'll be

changing changes into construction. But what's there? If it's not dangerous, it sounds like
JO

JO

JO

JO

profitable, we're willing to give you a royalty on the back end and escalation above? What
was your asking rent as a 1% royalty on the gross revenue, they've come back and, and

asked for a 7% royalty on the gross revenue, which would in fact, triple their revenue

37:35

is 7%. Okay, now, why don't you title any revenue? Right. So at that point, that’s pure
negotiation, | don't care what they came back with, you get that's a gratuity to this point
yet, you got, you can give them something to increase the rent to cover it. But whatever
number you come up with, you figure out yourself, you now have a partner for that
percentage. Only, we're totally open to discussion and negotiation, whatever you want,

from nothing to whatever you think you're a little bit. Okay.

38:09

Okay, the second thing that they've asked for in the lease is they've asked for two
deposits, the first deposit comes to about half a year’s worth of rent in the first deposit.
And then they've asked for a second deposit soon, simply as a security deposit with no
term for repayment of the security deposit, and it's strictly there to secure our
performance under the lease. So presumably, lease, are you building something? We're
going to be it most of the structures already there will be building one or two small
structures, but the rest is predominantly there. Okay, if you're putting some dollars in,
we're putting some dollars in. Yeah, yeah, there will be some tenant improvements.
There's no question Do they want some kind of security? That's fine. Okay, so but | don't

want that money tied up for 25 years.

39:03

Love best subject to negotiation, | agree. Between D, it depends on the value with the time
what the value is when the only time they need security is when you go pro. Right? Well
then that as long as you're paying your rent, what do they care right are strictly strictly up
to the negotiation situation or a negotiation ploy. So we should be asking for, but But at

this point, if you don't exercise the options, you get the security back.

39:36

Yeah, but then Okay, fair enough.
JO

JO

JO

JO

13:40

way by banning represent banning residential zoning? What do you mean? You can't have
houses?

13:45

Well, no, we can't restrict a zone to being only houses. only single family detached homes,

13:52

okay. They can do that now. They really is daily 30 to change the zoning in any unbuilt
area. Now, the beauty of the situation is this. It takes them a long period of time. For that
to be law, that to go through if you think is going to be low, you better start your building
while the existing zoning is there. You may have to accelerate and you basically say okay,
I'll do it now. If they're going to change the zoning from one acre to three acres, let me
build up so it may change the timing but they have the absolute right to do it. Okay. Not
okay, but that's the way it is. Okay, why don't we go next to SAP SAP your online? Victor.
Hi, George. Hi there. Yeah, I'm on the are you guys doing? Okay. Good.

15:00

Thank you for taking my question. So this question is in regards to a contract negotiation,
I'm working on acquiring a package of properties from a seller that is a real estate agent
and he has a custom purchase contracts. My attorney reviewed the contract. Also, before |
go into further details, | do have a buyers real estate agent representing me on the buy
side. So sellers, an agent and my, myself, | have a buyer's agent, where my attorney
reviewed the this customized purchase contract that the seller wants to see us he he
found a lot of weasel clauses. And my, my, my summary of all of his comments was, it's
very one sided towards the seller. So my attorneys recommending that we, we use just a
standard Missouri residential purchase sales contract instead of this customized
agreement, but the seller is adamant about us using his customized version and he says
that he's used it several times in the past. So if you're in my shoes, would you would you
try to negotiate with the seller to use a standard contract? Or would you go against the
attorneys recommendation and just find a way to have the attorney makes this contract

kosher? Like you know cross out the specific paragraphs he has concerns with
JO

JO

JO

money they might consider. So it depends on what what the prices are in the market. All
right. Now, that's it depends on a particular property. Now, when you assemble, if you
have a block, for example, in your five different owners, what you gave one owner will
weigh heavily on the next owner. That's going to say good, | bought your piece of property
for $50,000. And the next owner is not going to ask you for 500,000 This way you
understand somebody else's 50 you'll figure out the difference between the two to two
sides and come up with a number and you start you negotiate. Okay, | happen to think
Hamilton is a beautiful is a great place for expansion. | think it's been under developed for
years. That's good to hear. Man if they're being as close as it is the major hub, maybe city |
think with everything going on with COVID | think a lot of people want to get out of main
city and want to we're willing to go to a suburb more like Hamilton. That's true. Thank you.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm pretty familiar with. So because our client and it’s in Hamilton, and

he's done very well with building. Okay. Okay. Thank you, George. You're welcome.

30:30

Okay. Next, George, we've got a complex of assisted living homes under construction. And
the general contractor made a mistake, they didn't include the full scope of the
communication wiring when the project was bid. So they essentially underbid the project.
They came back and asked us if we'd be willing to reduce the scope somewhat to help
them out. And we said, you know, we're good, guys, we'll help you with that. So we agreed
ona number of cost savings, including eliminating telephone wire, eliminating the cable
TV wire completely from the project. So you can carry both of those on the internet wiring
today, there's no reason to replicate that infrastructure. And then we had a keycard
system. So the staff can, you know, it’s one of these network systems so they can come in
and out with using key cards, we eliminated that in favor of a lower cost keypad system
where you know, each is a keypad at each door. And then so for all of these changes, we
said, okay, we've got a full list of changes, they're all documented. Now, the engineer
wants to charge us 8480 $400 to delete those items out of the drawings, which is an

egregious price.

31:40

Why is it that you elliptica, the contract to pay for it? Okay, that’s the savings letter pay
for the cost of getting,

31:50

that's one option. | mean, we're fine, frankly, with doing the change order as an
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

19:14

have the best weapon in the world, you have to balance it a purchase price. He doesn't
want to just keep a deposit or fight for the pot. You can save he many times because we
do what is normal or typical in the industry. You're going to get your deposit back. nobody

really wants to litigation, they just want to smooth closing.

19:40

Right. Well just clarified. So the last comment would you suggest? Let's say we do the due
diligence title comes back clear. And we want to go forward the deal. Are you suggesting

at that point we we could then request to switch over to the standard purchase contract

19:54

or

19:58

the best contract Tracks are the best documents, legal documents I've ever drawn are the
ones we put in a drawer and never look at, again. Legal legal documents that are hell well
drafted, are only good in one situation when you go to litigation. If the two parties trust
each other, and they can agree, they're not going to go into litigation either side. So just, |
would say, don't consider it don't, it's not that important. Okay. So So SAP does. How
about having the great deal with a bad contract or bad or bad deal with a great contract?

I'll take the former. You got it.

20:46

There's the contract list as an attachment as an exhibit. The form of the deed that you'll

receive on closing.

20:54

| don't care | okay. | don't care what a full covered warranty deed or a quitclaim deed as
long as | got title insurance. Okay, but that’s legal. Yeah. We shouldn't be talking legally
through the business. You like the property by it? Got it?
JO

JO

JO

04:15

Greg, if you keep up with what the changes but understand that the two changes when
when all things are considered, they're not going to do something which prices something
out of the market. If people are not going to buy it, why build it? So they're gonna have to
bring it down to a point where it’s where it's still competitive to where people want and
that would be basically but so you're not going to go into find something new so
outrageous. Yes, it's good. But yes, it's it's very expensive. It’s out of sight, out of sight.
Yeah, but now looking, for example, at this, this this come suddenly the cars that come out
in the new All electric cars with a price tag of $50,000. Wow. What does that do for the
average person, go spend $50,000 for an automobile? Well, now they're paying in playing
the 20s. So something's gonna have to happen. Right, you're going to bring the car, you're
going to bring the price down to people who are willing to willing to share it, or give some
kind of incentives to bridge the gap between what it is today, and what it is what it will be
in, you cannot figure out how to make it better how to make it cheaper. But that’s the

technology.

05:39

Well, | think there's a difference there. Because in the automotive market, there's simply
saying, we're going to pick the luxury segment of the market. And we're going to price
that, you know, we're going to go after that premium product for the development of the
new technology, and then bring it down to the mass market as it becomes more
economical. You couldn't be more correct, right? But it's a little bit more difficult to do that
in the world of housing, where we're saying, Okay, this is now the building code, and

applies universally, at the top end and at the entry level,

06:05

know what that is, won't, won't, you're going to find the same difference. And you can do

it that way. Good. You say fine, you're going to make you're going to eliminate wood from
all buildings, more steel, if it changes over a period of time, |, | could look at what's going
on. And the concern is, there seems to be an impression that this is going to happen
quickly. It's not gonna happen quickly. One thing you did before you got more gray hair, |
got more gray hairs than you do. | don't know what this what, but not going to happen in
your lifetime. It'll be changes but not not so dramatic. So | would just say put on the brakes
a little bit and think about it. And as long as you build or you do what it is in conformity
with the existing laws and the existing crow code, you will be fine. They're not going to tell

you you got to take it out. Unless it’s so dangerous. So you had it, they got to take out
JO

JO

JO

JO

concept you don't know the price of the concept because there's nothing required to be
done. At the present time. It’s not a blank check. When you ask for something, if it's
reasonable, you lose it. If it's not reasonable. You won't. But they get get basically tell you
tear it down and rebuild it because that's contrary to what they're trying to preserve.
Yeah. Make sense? Yeah. That's what it is.

48:53

Okay. Well, that’s, that’s actually the end of the questions we have for tonight. If there's
anyone on the call that has a

49:00

that's wonderful. Anything else? Very quiet. Okay. Where it's withdrew for tonight. You will
give me a new date for next month. Yes, yes. I'll

49:18

give you a call ask a question. Actually. It has to do with the same conversation that we
were having with the triple net lease. Much like Victor said, we put milestone agreements
in the lease when we did our initial offer, and they completely ignored them. What do you
mean milestones? Like we wanted to do a payment structure that would as we reach
different milestones a profit and the business got up and running that we would, you
know, pay more rent and take over more responsibility for the property, but now they
added a six month delay grammar. First, you have to tell me, Are you the owner or the
tenant? We're gonna be the tenant on those property with the land lease, right? Yeah. And
we're going to be putting a nice restaurant and a boutique wedding venue. Yeah. And
basically they're saying because of zoning and everything, it's gonna, there's gonna be
delays. And it’s basically we're gonna, what do they care? What do they care, it just

means you're paying the same rent? Well, when we originally made the offer, we were we
were doing milestones. So we would technically not be paying much of anything until the
business was up and running. And then we would pay more rent, right, which was the
premium that Victor was talking about. But they ignored all that and said, We want 7%

like, so they

50:36

want 7% but no violence if you if you're not open operating there, 7% of nothing is
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

nothing.

50:42

That is also true. Right? What's it? What's the difference? What the percentage is, if I'm

not gonna lie, if I'm never gonna pay?

50:50

It kind of feels they ignored like a lot of what we put out there. Oh, and then just Welcome
to the world of negotiation. Yeah, | guess we get to go play for the next week, and then

bring it back closer to what we want, right? Yeah. In a way.

51:04

No, | don’t | don't see a problem is elite. If your rent starts out low, and you have a
percentage based on the growth, that's fine. All right. If on the other hand, it turns out that
you're paying too much in the in the front side, plus a percentage, you already agreed that
I'll probably never reach the percentage because the present is you got to be offset
against the basic rent. Yep. So it's not in addition to CFD take into account. So for
example, with taking if in fact, you say, I'll give you 6% of everything over $500,000. All
right. Now, if your basic rent was 330 1000, that's the 6%. All right now, so it's not a
problem. If you basically grant was less than $30,000 a year, you're ahead of the game.
It's more than $30,000, and you're still paying present, then now you're paying more than
more than the property was basically worth nothing. The percentage should be something
that the landlord gets, but it

52:14

doesn't hurt the tenant. And it seems they want both right factor where they want rent,

plus a percentage. So like, correct,

Se22

so maybe it’s a matter of putting a cap?
JO

JO

JO

JO

jo

preserve that structure? Because eventually nature will run its course over?

45:53

What before it come before it gets its develop before it’s thrown down? You have to fix it.

But up until that time, you leave it the way it is. We've got to stop it.

46:11

We're aware that the current owner has put $7 million worth of renovations into the
property so far in the last couple of years, not into the old barn. Yeah. into the barn.
There's two barns, there’s two buildings. One of them is the old barn and the other one
was a barn as well. But it's now an insulated building with geothermal heat and all kinds of
so we got permission from the from the landmark area who made the fine. So what say,

Thank you. Yeah, | don't want to face a $7 million bill.

46:51

That's no way you can face anything at this point. That's partly they can't the
municipality, nothing is the trustee of the heritage, they can't force you to pay $3 million.
Okay. No, they can't that's there. They can claim they want an improvement, and then you
can figure out what improvement they can predict. That's, that's about as far as it goes.
They can tell you well, | want you to put in a $4 million dollar improvement. Boom, you can
fight those out. An old dilapidated barn is an old dilapidated barn. That's the beauty is still
happening. We don't change what was old, even if we don't like it anymore. Now you have
to keep it from falling down. Yes. But beyond that, you have to improve it and make it
brand new. No. But | wouldn't, | wouldn't worry about it be concerned, you'll never even
look at it until so until it becomes an eyesore or the neighbors don't like it anymore. And
they come back and they say you have to do something because we're getting

complaints from the neighbors. Then you'll talk. Okay,

48:09

| guess I'm yeah, | mean, our main concern is that we're signing up to a blank check

48:13

out a blank check. Is it not a blank check? Is this a concept? You suddenly got to a
