JO

JO

believe in that, and then develop an investing thesis based on that scenario, and then go to people and say, Hey,
based on this scenario that we all think is likely like the fall of the dollar, this investment thesis, in my case, precious
equity, is something that might make sense,

31:01

people that see more what I'm, yeah. Well, |

Russ 31:05

think | think | think that if we go to a hot war, | mean, even the war we're in right now, is we have to print a lot of
money, all the pressure lands on the dollar. And they're putting more pressure on the dollar. They don’t want to take
over the dollar, but they they definitely are withdrawing from being being influenced by it. | mean, one of the United
States weapons in geopolitical influence is the dollar and the dollar system, and people are trying to get out of it.
And, you know, it isn't for anything other more more than they just don't want to be dominated Russia, you know,
sold all their treasuries, and they own nothing but gold. They've been you know, China and Russia have been working
together primarily, but all kinds of countries have signed bilateral trade agreements that I've documented, and many
more since, you know, in both the dollar under attack video in the future of money and wealth, it's the first video in
that series, you can go watch it if you haven't seen it. And then the real asset investing report. So this has been going
on for a long, long time. And pretty much everything that | talked about in those things has been happening and
continues to happen. And yet millions and millions and millions of dollar Dave's luck is going to raise 275 million buck
Joffrey 300 million. Kenny's out there doing deals, | mean, but Brad some rock, there's plenty of money to be made in
the middle of a collapsing dollar, as long as we have the right to own private property, and you structure yourself to
weather the possibility the dollar could be supplanted. But that’s okay, because there will be a currency. And there
will be means to do business. As long as you have the right to own property. There's a currency to transact in and
people have, you know, essential needs for housing and food and energy and health care, you're probably going to
be in a pretty safe space, are we going to be prosperous? | don't know, | wouldn't. My investment thesis based on
what | see in the news wouldn't have me investing in the high markets at the top of market in the high end product.
Right? | think you probably if you want to have something that's going to have the most appeal, depending on what
happens in a scenario where things aren't going well. If you're in affordable markets, if you're in affordable niches,
and you're catering to that mass of people in the middle and structuring it properly, you're probably going to be a
fair amount of demand, even if we have to print the money to make the payments through things like PPP loans and
UBI checks and all kinds of subsidies. | mean, you know, again, it depends on your niche, but, you know, look for
people who kind of buy into what you see, and then craft your investment thesis to solve that problem and share it
with them and you'll probably get some takers. Okay, let's move on to something else because that was a cheerful.
Who else? What else? | see stuff in the tat chat. most powerful idea. Okay, you guys, you're just sharing ideas with
each other super cool. My book, my bookshelf is ridiculous. | can’t even keep up. Okay, so so shifting to closing the
news. What else is out there?

34:11

There was a question. | have a two part question. One of them is on lumber. The other one is the the foreclosure
tsunami. I've been getting a lot of emails from investors and lenders talking about well, it’s the lenders are kind of
downplaying it. They're saying, well, when the eviction moratorium expires, that’s people worried about foreclosure
tsunami. But it's nothing to worry about because we're at low all time, low inventories, and I'm routing that
conversation or that topic to my investment if
O
()

1:02:20
That lumber article, actually, it mentions the tightening of, you know, lumber not being able to get there because

closing down, you know, plants and mills and things. But it, it puts a lot more emphasis on the fact that the trucks
cost more the fuel cost more the shipping costs more and that the prices aren't going down on lumber. Yeah, |

Russ 1:02:39

mean, you've got that other thing, you've got the you've got the the shipping container thing, big shipping containers
coming over fall, but not having anything to carry back, which means that everything coming in has to bear the
brunt of the return trip of the empty shipping container back to China filled up again, you know, an inefficient
system, it would it you know, half the price of shipping from China. half the price of the round trip, half would be paid
by the goods coming in, and half would be paid by the goods going out. But we don't have a balance of trade by any
stretch of the imagination. We have a huge imbalance of trade. | mean, as much as | want to support the United
States, everything | buy comes in made in China, | can't find anything to buy in the United States. Very difficult. Okay,
so we're at the top of the hour. In fact, we're a little bit past great conversation, guys really, really appreciate the
great participation. Always good when you forward your articles, any, you know, any again, just go out there and get
in conversations with people don't try to wax wise. Just ask people what they think about whatever the latest
headline is, Hey, did you notice a headline? What do you think and let them talk. And if they give you something you
can work with pivot? If not, then they just think oh, you're somebody that's like minded and interested, and then save
any type of a pitch or approach to a subsequent conversation, but keep the conversation going. It’s like dating, you
just got, of course, | always use these analogies. And | am just so not qualified. But I've been observing for a long
time. But you know, the idea that that when you're courting somebody you want it, you want to get in conversation
and keep the conversation going. You know, you want the people to take your call, you want people to be interested
in talking with you. So if you're really interested in this type of topic, | mean, it’s a great thing to start a meetup
around a discussion group, you know, you could start a little mastermind, investor mastermind and just focus on
what's going on in the news and just get people together like we're doing here. And you don't have to have a guru or
somebody you know, you don't have to be the guru. It’s just hosting a conversation just like we do on the community
calls, right? You don't have to be an expert to host a community call. You just have to be interested in the topic and
able to keep the conversation moving among the members. If everybody there is interested in the topic. They're all
going to come in with ideas, opinions, information and questions and then you banter them around and you build
relationships and it goes where goes. So a little bit of sales and marketing there. And a little bit of clues in the news.
So you got a twofer today. Anyway, appreciate everybody's time and attention day really appreciate it. And | will see
you on the next call. Okay. Have a super day. Thanks, guys.
the printing press. It doesn't matter what | think what matters is the people who are doing it believe that it’s not a
problem. In the real world, | do think it’s a problem, which is why | advocate owning things that are real being in as
much debt as you can control with reliable incomes and tax breaks, and hopefully, debt that you've arbitrage In
other words, I'm happy to hold notes on real assets that | would be happy to take back for the price of the note. And
then and then, you know, just owning things that are real and essential. I've song I've been singing since probably
2012 2011. And | still believe that if you own food, if you own energy, if you own housing, if you own energy, all the
things we talked about, for all the reason precious metals if we if you own things that are real and essential, time
tested proven in human history, good times and bad, then you're probably going to be fairly insulated. Then the
question is just how strong is your grip? Right How exposed to counterparty risk, how exposed to interest rate risk,
how exposed to litigation risk, how exposed to diversity, you know, currency interest rate, you know, all those risks,
you have to analyze all those risks and ask yourself, how is the portfolio constructed? How is this deal constructed?
Again, you shouldn't have all your eggs in one investment thesis, you shouldn't have your eggs all in one deal, neither
should your investors. So when you're dealing with an investor, you have to be clear about what part of part of their
portfolio, your deal fits into speculative, hedging, gross income, privacy, tax advantage, may be part of their state
plan, there's a lot of different areas you can fit in. And when you start having that conversation, you're going to
number one sound very different than nearly every other syndicator they've ever talked to, you're going to sound a lot
more like a financial planner, but you need to be very careful, because you don't give financial advice, only ideas and
information, but you invite them to engage with your team, where you learn all these things. So that once they see
your team in action, and Jeremy had real life experience with just the other day, because he brought a buddy of his
and he had a strategy team sit down, the guy came in he not part of the club, you know, he’s just a main street
investor out there making a good living. And he saw what happens when you get a group of advisors who actually
all work together, how quickly things can get done. And, you know, | was the strategist in that session, and
quarterback did but that’s, you know, any one of you could do that, you know, you have to learn to do it. It's part
sales skills. It's part just kind of understanding, you know, the financial concept. But once you have that you open up
the conversation to people about other aspects of their portfolio because they don't even think of their portfolio that
way isn't really, you know, | should think of my portfolio that way. You know, Peter Schiff talks all the time about his
sense, Spencer is all in 100% of his net worth in Bitcoin. Okay, well, that’s either gonna be a big win or a Wipeout,
right. There's no in between. You know, either that's just gonna sit there and do nothing. But you know, that's a
Wipeout, too. So not as bad is not as bad as completely losing all your principal. But if you're not growing it, it's
you've missed a lot of opportunity. So he's just betting on the home run. Anyway, so there's that. So, Kelly, | don't
know. Did that? You know, you? Yeah. Okay, good. All right, who else? What else? We got seven minutes left to go.
We're crushing it now that we're back on track. Anything you've read in the news? Craig? Craig, Craig Craig's got one.
Craig, the broker.

Craig Kamman_ 52:39

This is a little left? Well, it's not really off topic. But I've been reading, like Bill Gates and other people are investing in
agriculture. And | think that ties back into China. China's got some huge demographic problems. And | think food
supply is going to be a growing issue. Is there anyone that's investing in farmland out of this group?

Russ 53:04

| don't know about this group. We are. You know, | know, | know that. We have some folks in inner circle because we
have people who are in that space that we promote on the show. And | mean, I'm obviously a big fan of it. You know,
that picture of me with Donald Trump way back in the day that was actually taken at a farm investment conference.
We were in lowa and a bunch of farmers were out there before the lowa caucuses and they hired Donald Trump to
come in and be their keynote speaker and Robert and | said, You know what, | know it’s gonna be winter in lowa, but
it's worth it, to have a chance to, you know, connect with Donald Trump. And it worked out great, especially for me,
because Robert had to leave before the the press room and | ended up in the press room and that's how | ended up
with that great picture. But with that said, you know, we've been promoted to farmland for a long, long time for all
the reasons everybody is getting on the bus right now the problem is in the US, it's just a hard space to be in.
Because farmers pretty much only exist in the US on life support. So it's hard to hard business to be in but if your guy
like Bill Gates, you don't care because he's not investing. He's just parking well. Right rather than economics

Craig Kamman_ 54:10

I'm finding are not working. So he's, he’s not getting a return on it. He's just parking cash.

Russ 54:17

Yeah, he didn't care. | mean, if you listen to Jim Rickards talk to wealthy people, Uber wealthy people about how to
prepare for, you know what's coming. And | can move this was a currency wars, the death of money was the second
one. But in those two books, and then then | think he called something the collapse and the next one was aftermath.
But anyway, in that series, if you've not read that series, he basically says one of the places you can hide wealth, Park
wealth is gold, art and land when none of those things produce an income, but he’s not there looking to make an
investment. He's not even speculate. He's not hoping to buy low, sell high. He's just hoping to have something of real
value rather than cash in the bank, which he think is a failed place to be. Or if you have cash and bonds and are only
going to get paid back dollars, which are diluting in value, that's not a great place to be. So going back full circle to
who's going to buy all this debt, the Fed, how are they going to do it, they're going to print money, but they're going
to pay them backs themselves back and worthless dollars, they don’t care. They're not in it to make dollars, they can
collect dollars all day long and print dollars all day long. It's not it. They're just trying to keep the government alive.
Well, they steal through inflation, the resources of people who don't understand how to hedge themselves against
that inflation. Bill Gates is a pretty smart guy. Pretty well advised. You may not like his politics, you might not like his
software. But guess what, the guy knows what he's doing. And he’s, in my opinion, making a smart move. He's putting
gobs of his wealth into farmland, because it doesn’t matter. You don't have to get the, the location correct. There was
a point in time where the United States of America was the world's breadbasket, we built our economic wealth on
feeding the world. If we go back to kind of a pre industrialized situation, a lot of this pho wealth that the United
States has enjoyed will go away. But the one thing that will remain is the extremely fertile farmland of the United
States of America and a global demand for food. So our economic policy, our economic structure, may change. |
mean, you know, to John's point, we could we could become a vassal state of China, we could become a feudal
nation. But if you're a landowner, and you have the ability to protect that land, then as long as you have the ability
to own that land, you've got something real tangible that's going to produce a crop that people are going to be
willing to pay for. Very, very high been, you know, | don't know that there's really anything higher on the list of
priorities for human beings to spend money on than food. | mean, right? You can be homeless, but you're going to
buy food, you can be naked, but you're going to buy food. Right? So | think it's right at the top of the list. So
agriculture makes a ton of sense if you can find deals at pencil. But based on the macroeconomics, it’s pretty
obvious and based on you know, in gates isn't the only Uber billionaire doing it. Bezos is doing it, too. And you
probably seen that and I'm sure others are that just are flying under the radar. So it's not just land, it's productive
land. Okay, what else we got? We got now two minutes left to go. So probably Time for one more rant. Anything you
got? Yeah, Ben,

Ben 57:37

if nobody else has anything, but just piggybacking off some assets, and Kelly's questions. When you're tracking like
inflation on lumber, and thinking about this talking to your audience. How do you guys tracker, separate inflation
caused from supply chain issues versus inflation caused from Hey, there's X amount of lumber in the world, and we

got a lot more dollars chasing it?
Wy ben I/:35/

JO

JO

JO

I'm not specific on that topic. One of the things that seems like it's kind of Top of Mind is with all the concern about
Robin Hood and some of the trading apps, I'm writing right now a newsletter series, | was going to post something in
the forums just to get the group’s feedback on anyways, great, but on just the benefits of investing in private
placements, and then the options of investing in private placements. My view, at least with all the Turton be no churn
or fluff in the market is with crypto and Robin Hood that like private placements are going to get largely kind of
ignored. But | mean, | could be wrong on that. But that's that's kind of what I'm working on right now. Over the next
three, four weeks.

Russ 18:21

Yeah, | mean, I'm obviously a huge fan of private placements. And | can't wait to read the report. Because it's, it’s one
| probably needed to write or wanted to write for a long, long time. So you write it and then | don't have to. I'll just, I'll
just read it and reference it. But yeah, that's great. And | love the idea of putting it up in the forum because it does
two things for you. One is it helps you make sure you refine your message before you go public with it. But it’s also a
way to build your brand and build your network within the club because people can see, you know that you're you're
thinking about things and you're bringing value to the club. So it's a good move on on both counts. So good job.
Thanks. All right. Let me just change here to gallery view so | can see everybody who else anything real world or just

trying to figure out how to get started. Wave your hands. Oh, john. Okay.

19:12

We're talking clues in the news right now. Um, nope, nope,

Russ 19:15

nope, nope. Nope. We're talking. This is sales.

19:19

Okay, | thought it was closing the news. Nevermind. Yeah.

Russ 19:22

I'm pretty sure it's sales. | hope so. Because that's kind of what | opened up with. Maybe | got it all wrong.

19:30

Yeah, | think it was the closing news Invitational notice.

Russ 19:34

Oh, really? Yeah. Okay, well, then this has been a complete muff on my part. | apologize. | thought we were doing
sales and marketing. Okay. Well then I'm happy to take on these topics. No bait and switch here. My my invitation
Wy Russ 23:51

JO

JO

JO

jo

you. My back

23°53

is want to make sure. So I've been you know, I'm I'm an X 82nd airborne paratrooper. | tend to look at things

geopolitically. | am very concerned that China and US will go to war, it's inevitable. There's going to be a war.

Russ 24:19

Who knows somebody say we're already having a war. It's just Well, there’s going

24:22

to be a hot war and they're going to crush us. So I'm thinking about, well, unless it goes thermonuclear, then we're all

but conventionally

Russ 24:33

we're Kinder we could get hit by an asteroid.

24:37

My point is, if you're one, and | noticed a lot of people aren't watching, but if you look, there’s a lot of news about
China's aggressions here in there. My point is, what do you since we're talking clues in the news, relate it back to
investing related back to securing one’s future. As best as one can, | think the odds of you know, nuclear holocaust
are slim, but they exist. But | do think tumbo in limited local breakouts of conflict between US and China is very
possible. And how's that gonna affect economics? And what kind of things can one do? There you go.

Russ 25:26

Well, okay, assuming we avoid obliteration, right.

25:29
Yeah. We probably will do that. Well,

Russ 25:32

| mean, if it doesn't, if it does, we don’t. Who cares, right? Why does it matter, so it doesn’t matter, right. But but from
an investing perspective, the foundation of wealth, and this is a great topic, if you're going to be thinking about
things to talk about heading into the summer, the foundation of wealth is private property, if you don't have the
wy KUSS 14.1U

_)oO

for you or for the builder. For the builder.

14:13

| am the builders in this scenario as well. So

Russ 14:19

Well, | mean, | think | think you just have to look at, you know, you look at everybody's side of the equation, and you
have to ask what are the critical variables? You know, if something changes if interest rates change, if lending
changes, if labor changes, if whatever changes, you have to see what are the key key variables? And then and then
what what are the likelinood because people will trade profit, they will trade convenience for security. You know,
there's if you come again, third party, if you do your homework, and you come in with third party, hey, here’s what
we're seeing in the market. | think that if we can get this deal done, it’s a win for everybody. It's it takes some
variables out for me, it takes some variables out for you. And you know, yeah, maybe | could wait and get a better
deal. Maybe you could wait and get a better deal. But we're here, right here, right? Now, we can get a deal done that
pencils for both of us, we take all these variables out of the equation. And so now you're you're pivoting you're
leveraging the uncertainty, which is always ever present, right? uncertainty always exists. And you're trying to push
those uncertainty buttons and create that fear so that they will latch on to the security of getting the deal done with
you now. Now, that may or may not work, you can't control them. But you can, you can push the right buttons and
then bring in the right proof, you know, because you you may assume they're aware of the dangers. And so you know,
you don't want to assume they do but you also want to condescend like they don't you say, Well, | don't know if
you're aware of this, or | don’t know if you've seen this, but this is something | just saw from this source. It’s got me
concerned, maybe it concerns you, too. What do you think? Let them express? It's always good to let them express a
little bit to find out where they're at. Okay. Yep, thank you. All right. Okay, so | see somebody shared Ben Vanek

shared a news. | don't know is that just for general consumption, their banner, is that is there something in there?

Ben 16:22

Well, | didn't want to | didn't get a chance to post any questions prior to but | thought that’s one interesting thing
that we could talk about, but it’s just the changes the SEC, based on some of the recent confirmations with Gary
Gensler and a few other topics that are kind of top of mine are crypto, and yeah,

Russ 16:40

let's ROI. Yeah, let's roll that into the the ATM call with Mauricio. Okay, because I've been having to work on kind of
an update. And he’s obviously pays very close attention to what's going on with the SEC and all the changes in the
new the new regime. So | think it'd be it'd be a much better conversation if ratios in the mix, because he watches all
that a lot better than me, unless there's a sales thing inside there. | mean, how to use it is one thing, | think we just
kind of covered that. If you've got third party, you know, in the ideas, you know, oh, yeah. 80 of his estimate, or sorry,
it's not automated telling machine. But But yeah, so | mean, is there something in there that you think specifically
regarding, you know, maybe disturbing the status quo of a prospective investor or Counterparty in any type of
negotiation that you think would be useful?

FPR ces oem An7T.-A7
JO

going on in the world that are disconcerting. That may seem like a negative, but in my book, that's a huge positive,
because that just means there's so many people out there that are being disturbed by the mainstream news, which,
you know, you've seen some of what's been going on out there. They actually their stock and trade is to disturb
people. So well, that might be upsetting if you're a citizen. And you don't like being disturbed all the time. But as a
marketer, it’s fantastic, especially in this particular niche, because people worry one of the things they worry about
most In fact, maybe most of the polls I've seen, say the number one thing they worry about most is their finances,
their financial future. And so when fear uncertainty and doubt creep into that area, and you come in as a concerned,
qualified person, and listen to those concerns, and then go out and help people find solutions to their financial fears.
You have a very, very strong basis to get people to be interested in doing business with you. So don't be afraid of any
of those things. All those things are extremely positive as a fun fun time to be in this business right now, because
they're printing gobs of money. There's threats of distress everywhere, and people are upset. So all good things.
Anyway, with that said, I'm going to stop monologuing here. Welcome a couple of new people. Hear and | have to
switch to my other glasses to be able to see everybody. But what I'd like to do is just kind of toss it out to the group
and see if anybody got, you know, real life scenario, a question that | can | can help you with. And don't be shy
because | hate dead air. So if you got one, just wave your hand at me, and I’m happy to jump in. All right, Kelly, thank
you.

05:23

Hey, so I'm dealing with the situation even today. And that goes a little bit along the line of steps question. But I've
got a medical office building that's kind of small in the square footages. So it's a small billing like only at 8400
square feet with all the common area. The struggle | having is my realtor keeps bringing me deal offerings with
people buying the unit without buying paying for some of the common areas. So just valuing the sell price we've
offered what we're asking are asking price based on just the leasable usable space, which with all the costs increase
with lumber, my permits have gotten fees have gone up considerably. Everything has gone crazy mechanical. So I'm
coming in with just my hard costs where | can hardly break even if the guy. So my question is, is how can I? What can
| give to the realtor to | mean to how can | ask have him re approach this thing to sell the clients, the buyers on?
Focus on the percentage of the leasable and common space?

Russ 06:39

Yeah. Okay, so whoever has a barking dog, please mute. And it could be you, Kelly. So, which is fine? Because you
can unmute when you're asking your question no matter what's going on in the background, so we can hear you. But
when we get to the answer, so this comes up a lot in real estate, | used to have this same problem in corporate sales.
And the issue happens when you've got is when you can't deal directly with the principal or the decision maker, right,
you've got to work through an agent or a proxy. And so you have to kind of equip them, you know, my first deal, you
know, or my first my first choice is to try to get them to agree to broker a conversation with the principal. Now, a lot
of brokers resist doing that. But if they believe that you're serious, you know, there's no reason to not ask in my
opinion. Now, that’s just my opinion, | would, Kelly, I'd recommend you take this same topic up on the call with
Robert, if you haven't already. He's he's got a lot more of that real estate transactional negotiation experience. But
you know, if I'm sitting in that seat, having had to do that many times, the first order of business is get me an
audience with the decision maker. And to do that, you have to appeal to what the the the Doberman, the guard, the
gatekeeper, what their interest is, obviously, they're interested in getting the deal done. And so if they, if you're
serious, and you, you convince them that you have a better chance of getting this deal done, if you let me get face to
face, and | won't make you look bad, because they're, they're concerned about, they're concerned about saving face,
they don't want to look bad, and so they lose control, if they put you in the room, and agents are all about control,
right. And that's fine, | understand that. And that, you know, and then they're they've also been hired to negotiate on
their sellers behalf. And so the minute they put you into the mix, then they they begin to lose a little bit of that
control as well. Okay, so. So you've got that. Now, if you're able to do that, that’s fantastic. If you're not able to do
JO

Russ 34:44

you're not the one being foreclosed on. But in terms of bunch of inventory, flooding the market and not getting
absorbed and driving prices down. Right. Yeah.

34:55

So yeah, so the lenders | feel like they're, they're kind of they they are downplaying it. What angle? Do you think we
should take that on? so that we don't sound naive? that hey, yeah, there’s there's, | mean, if the government does that
the free market do what it's supposed to do and let a bust happen. You know, | want to make the case that I'm aware
of that, but not waiting on the sidelines, like, there's still deals now there's going to be deals then. And not not to
come off naive. So | guess how would you, you know, if you're gonna have the conversation, how would you? What
would your take me? And how would you position it?

Russ 35:35

Well, | think first of all, it you know, we talk about this all the time on the show, real estate is not a commodity.
Therefore, when you're looking at national stats, they mean nothing on Main Street, nothing at all. Right? If there’s a
foreclosure glut, and it’s all happening Detroit, and you're investing in Dallas, does it affect you? Not really, you know,
to the point that it rolls up, and it blows up the financial markets, like when subprime rolled up and blew up the bond
markets? did that affect real estate everywhere? Yes, because somebody tripped over the cord that was running the
air pump in the jump house. And when that happened, you know, the influx of money through MBs, mortgage backed
securities into the housing market, everywhere, collapsed, and therefore the prices went with it. Okay. So that's, that’s
part of what happens. So | think number one is, how do you mitigate it is you you acknowledge that this is out there,
and you don't try to refute it. Because if people believe it, and it's coming from a credible source, then you're putting
your credibility up against theirs, what you want to do is shift it from this global conversation, which has no meaning
in the real world, and talk very specifically about the dynamics in the market you were in, which shows that there is a
difference, and you know, the difference, and you've done your homework. In other words, you know, what's
happening in your market starts with, you know, how landlord friendly it is, it could include this, you know, the supply
and demand dynamics and that particular market. Right. So, you know, obviously, say, for example, what's going on
right now in New York, and San Francisco is a very different experience in what's happening in Phoenix, and
Scottsdale. Very, very different, all happening, you know, at the same period, q1 2021, but extremely different in terms
of what's going on. So now, the other part of it, you mentioned lumber prices. And this is where you look at the the
product that you're actually investing in, which is real estate, and in your case separates housing. And that's actually
as it turns out, happens to be what I'm writing on right now housing. And so you have concerns out there that
housing is in a bubble. And then what you're saying is that if we have this foreclosure tsunami, that it could pop the
bubble. So the flip side of that is number one, well, are we in a bubble, a legit bubble? Number two is, to your point is
what's the true supply and demand in my geographic market? And is there enough demand to suck up that
inventory? Would that be not only not a bad thing, it would actually be a good thing. And if it does temporarily, dive
down the prices, and you can go grab a bunch of those distressed properties in foreclosure, and then ride the way
back up, | would call that manna from heaven. | mean, I'd be super excited about that. Right? In fact, I'm sure that
Terry Kerr out there's licking his chops hoping that happens. Right. But most most people who invest in, you know,
value, add real estate hope that the bubble pops because this is a hard market to operate in. So one of the things to
look at is the supply chain. And the components of cost. What are the components of cost in real estate? Well, |
mean, you know, you've obviously got interest rates, right? Because interest rates in the in the lending, there's plenty
of that there's low interest rates and plenty of money. So that isn’t an issue that that puts upward pressure, that's air
in the jump house. Number two is the actual supplies that make it up. And that's commodity pricing, and the lumber
is right, what 240% or something like that. It's just a ridiculous number right now. And the question you have to ask

yourself, Is that is that a permanent, right? The Fed is coming out going, Oh, no inflation, this is transitory. Because
JO

this is all happening because we shut the economy down. And we have a bubble in our pipeline. | mean, any of you
in sales, know that you're out there, prospecting, and you're prospecting, you're prospecting, you're putting people in
the front end of your sales pipeline, and then all sudden, you get a whole bunch of business and you're running
around taking care of business and you stop prospecting and stop marketing and stop putting people in the front
end of your pipeline. And then and then you get all the business you've got in your pipeline handled and what do you
have in your pipeline? It’s called a bubble. Not a good bubble, you know, but But But an empty spot. So you packed a
bunch of activity in it moved through the Python. And now you've got this big gas bubble where there's no activity.
And then you start repacking, well during that period of time, when this air bubble passes out the other side of your
production pipeline, you got nothing coming out, but you're passing gas, if you will, right, nothing's there. And so if
you understand that, then you realize how important it is to always be feeding the pipeline. But if you understand the
principle, you also understand that during that time, you are going to have a shortage. And so if the spike in lumber
prices is based on a shortage, and you look at the production pipeline and say, yes, but lumber mills are coming back
online, it's not like the trees stopped growing, they were there the whole time. But they're not getting from forest to
mill, to job site. Now you have to do your homework to check to make sure that's the case. That's one component,
the other component. And of course, it’s all the other components, right? Every manufactured component that's part
of a build is subject to what | just described. Food is part subject to that minds. | mean, there's a gold shortage right
now is that because everybody bought up the gold, is it because the mines were offline, right? There's, the market is
sending mixed signals, because we've never had a global shutdown like that. So this is all new territory. But it really is
common sense when you think about it. So you have to look at all the major components of cost. So you talked
about the cost of the money, we talked about the cost of the commodities, the materials, then you have to talk
about the cost of the labor. Now, here's something ironic because he Oh, gosh, with all these people unemployed,
labor should be cheap, the problem is unemployed doesn't mean they're not paid. We've created so much stimulus
money that people will find out, hey, | get paid, | don't have to work. So to get me off my couch, and off the
government's nipple, | am going to have to be get bid up to the point where I'm motivated to come out. So you've
got that. And so you know, talking to people like Jeremy or other people who are in the trades building, you know,
you can get more insight. And those are great conversations to have, particularly because you have access to people
like that in the club. But even outside the club, go find people that are qualified to have an opinion. So you have
some anecdotal information, because they're on top of it, they read the trade journals, they're dealing with suppliers
every day, I've got a friend of mine that’s in the grocery business. And she tells me that the supply chain has a bubble
in it, she goes, you know, it’s really hard to source food, we're, we're bringing stuff to the front of the shelf and making
this shelf look like it's full, but there’s nothing. There's nothing in the back. Right? So their shortage is coming. And she
warns me so | go and stock up just in case there's a bubble, | want to make sure that my personal supply chain, I've
got a buffer called inventory deep pantry. So you know, right now | just read an article about land, john burns just did
an article about land, he's like, Where's all the developable land? Well, if you remember, one of the first things the
new administration did when they came in, is they, they took a whole bunch of land off the market. And so you know,
if you got if you got a lack of supply of land, if you've got a lack of supply of commodities to build with, if you've got
a lack of supply, in lumber, | don't care how cheap you make the money, you still got a lot of upward pressure on on
pricing. And then if you're giving people money, who aren't even working, you know, then they're able to kind of keep
their credit going. And, you know, so there's just, there's a lot of dynamics. So you kind of have to take those macro
things that you're looking at, use third party news to support your thesis and then drill down to your specific market.
And look at what you're doing and ask yourself, you know, is there opportunity, like the SWOT analysis? Is there
opportunity? Or are there threats here? based on what's happening? And how do | adjust adjust my investment
thesis? Number one, how do | validate my investment thesis with data, third party data, credible data? And then how
do | present my investment thesis to prospective investors in such a way that it would increase their confidence and

attract their capital? Does that make sense?

44:21

Because Yeah, there's there’s so much so many different avenues, they can go with that. So that’s, that's a very big

picture perspective.
April 14, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Clues in
the Ne...

@ Thu, 9/23 9:43PM © 1:05:31

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, deal, money, investing, lumber, work, prices, problem, question, china, inflation, conversation, debt, talk, supply,

happening, world, bubble, news, investment thesis

SPEAKERS

Russ, Craig Kamman, Ben

Russ 00:16

Hey, everybody, this is the syndication, mentoring club sales. meetup or not meetup asked the mentors for April of
2021. Hard to believe we are already one quarter in the books through 2021. And more than are just about halfway
through April. So the Time Is Flying. And hopefully we're all out there making things happen. | know I've been
redoubling my effort. | always kind of have like this. | don't know if you'd call it a midlife crisis, but a mid year crisis. It
seems like when March closes, | feel like the the year had just begun. And then | have this freakout, like the years half
over, typically means | get a lot done in the second quarter. So hopefully, that'll be the case this year, too. With that
said, so |'m here for you. As far as | know, | didn't get any pre submitted questions. So | have a couple of things | can
riff on. Which, maybe I'll do. But before | do that, since we got some new folks want to say hello to everybody who's
new doing this for the very first time, here's kind of the way it works. This is really about real world. And so | know
when you're first started, you may not have anything going from a sales and marketing perspective, you may be just
kind of getting started in building your brand and building your network, you don't even know what you don't know,
and you don't have a lot of real world experience. So it's okay to ask questions that, you know, are kind of about you
trying to figure out how to get started, that's perfectly fine. However, you know, what we want to do is make sure that
everything we produce in terms of content and mentoring comes straight out of the real world. So if you're stuck
getting going, that's real world, you're stuck in the real world. If you're out there, and you're having conversations with
people or struggling to get into conversations with people, but trying, that’s real world, if you're out there having
those conversations, and they're going sideways, you're getting shut down, you're not able to kind of get things, you
know, going the way you'd like, then definitely want to do that. And hopefully for those of you that are already out
there engaging with investors who are presenting deals, who are either getting yeses, or getting that dreadful all
think about it, or you know, getting just completely rejected not knowing what to do next. Those are my favorite
things to talk about. Because there are definitely answers available for you. So | think that one thing is you have to
approach the whole process of sales and marketing with kind of a scientific approach, you have to kind of take your
ego and set it aside, you have to take your emotion and set it aside. And you just have to conduct experiments. And
then you iterate to find out what works and what doesn't work. And it's a combination of what works for you, and
what your avatar responds to. And so in the beginning, you're just trying to get to know that Avatar and while I'm a
big fan of going to trade shows and engaging in as many conversations as you possibly can, asking a lot of questions
and trying to figure out what are the emotional triggers that your prospective investors are dealing with? What what
buttons can you poke the to evoke their curiosity to inspire their? | don't know if greed is the right word, but their
ambition to advance themselves or what are they frightened about. And there's a lot of things obviously, right now
Russ 58:01

And now Have you ever made it? Have you ever made a smoothie? Yeah, how do you unsmooth the

Ben 58:09

done work?

Russ 58:09

Well, it's not easy. It's not easy. But what you have to do is you have to parse the components, right? So theoretically,
it can be done, right? Because they do like blood analysis. And they put it in these little spinners. And they break out
all these sub components. So if you're sophisticated enough, it is possible to parse something that's very well blended
and kind of pull it all apart and get a feel for what's in the mix. Right. So it can be done. So | think you just have to
understand what what is in the mix. And I've written about this before, but these are the things | look for in the news.
One is supply and demand in a zero sum game where money is equal. And you know, the idea is that if in order for
something, if the demand for something goes up, then it's going to it's going to take up available supply. And it's
going to make the remaining supply more valuable as the demand makes a bit. Right. But that that, by definition
means that that money that is being dedicated toward the thing is in short supply means there's going to be
something coming down someplace else. So that's kind of supply and demand. And that's its own animal, when you
interject upon that the idea of inflation, where you have more money chasing the same amount of goods and
services or the money supply expanding faster than the the amount of goods and services, then at the macro level,
ever, that’s that's true inflation. But it doesn’t inflation, that kind of inflation, that excess money doesn't puddle up in
one commodity or one location. Right. So you have to be wise about understanding where that money is typically
going to show up first. And so there's that and then you have finance. See, and financing is where you take dollars
from the future and bring them into the present. And so when you have a lot of financing available, that increases
purchasing power, and it’s a form of printing, it’s not like just putting more money in. But you kind of are because the
way we introduce more money into the system is through debt. But but when it’s consumer debt, which is different
than government debt, government debt, the way government debt puts it in is that the the Treasury borrows the
money from the Fed, and then spends the money into the circulation. And that's how it gets into circulation. So it is
debt driven, but its debt handled by the Fed who doesn't have a problem, you know, or the Treasury, neither one of
them have a problem making the payments, right? Everybody sweats about the deficit, making the payments, it's
really not a problem, because they can just keep borrowing money to keep recycling the debt. The problem is on the
consumer side, when you have the amount of real productivity, what people are doing, when you're working your job,
and you have to earn money to make your payment, and the interest rate goes up, then your payment will control
less debt from the future and bringing it into the present. And when you're tapped out, and you do not have the
ability to borrow any more, then they can't expand the money supply through the consumer side. And all that's left is
for the government to go into debt. And that's what we're seeing after the 2008 financial crisis, people started saving
when COVID hit savings went through the roof. What's that tell you consumers were debt averse. And so those are
the three basic components. So break it down is supply and demand. It is inflation supply of money relative to the
growth of goods, and it is debt, especially on the consumer side and the ability of paychecks to leverage loan
payments. Those are the three major components. Right. And again, it’s not it’s not easy. But you know, those are the
things to at least pay attention to where it shows up. Typically. | mean, you know, it'll show up, it'll show up in
commodity prices. Right. That's how | know we have real inflation, energy, gold, silver, lumber, | mean, pick a
commodity, Jeremy puts in here, steel and iron. Right. That's inflation.
JO

says ATM call. It did. No clues in the news. Yeah, there it is. Okay. It is 100 sent me My bad. Okay, well, that was all
good a big mouth. Okay, well the reason we use clues in the news is to make sales so they do actually kind of go
together. Alright, so shifting gears, | can't redo the intro so they're just gonna have to fix that But okay, well, I'm Gabi
overdub it. And | was actually neck deep in trying to get the newsletter out for today. So my head is kind of in the
space. Okay, so let's, let’s go there. So, again, we had no pre submitted questions. | think, | don’t know, Ben, do you
feel like we dealt with your topic now that | tried to pump it, but now

Ben 20:39

now, | mean, that was just the top headline and coin base today that was top of mind, and | did a bad job. | didn't
get signed up before today. So

Russ 20:49

| yeah. Yeah, well, kryptos definitely. Big in the news. You know, | my son hits me up almost every day with something
about crypto. And it's, you know, it’s 100% speculation, right, there's no way to add value, you don't have any control,
you really don't have any visibility. I'm not saying that it’s not, doesn't have a future. I'm not saying you can't make a
lot of money. But | wouldn't consider it investing. | think, you know, premise of investing, you have to kind of define
with people. But you know, we've been pretty clear on the show in our book investing isn’t buy low, sell high. Investing
is in buy low, sell high, meaning buy low, sell high over something, you have zero control over, right, where you're
simply trying to time the market, you're guessing about things outside your control, hoping to catch a wave that is
speculation. And investing, you can invest, buy low, sell high, if | invest in a piece of dirt, and | invest in cap x and
labor and marketing to create a product and sell it and go from cash to asset to cash, that's a forced equity strategy
forcing, meaning | have control over it. And so there are a lot of people, it's hard to resist it, it's enticing. | mean, who
wouldn't want to do have put $100 in Bitcoin when it was, you know, less than a penny? You know, I'm one of the guys
that regretted not doing that, right? | did a stupid math calculation and decided that the amount of time it was
going to take me to figure out how to do it wasn't worth the perspective, even if | could double, triple or quadruple
my money, but who would have ever thought that it would have had the kind of run a Tat, you know, millions of
percentage of gain? | mean, who would have known? But anyway, but but you know, doesn't mean | want to go out
and buy a lottery ticket tomorrow. So but but you're gonna find investors who were who were of that mind, and that’s
okay. When you get that again, I'm going to go to sales because | can | help myself, but the idea is that, well,
everybody has a percentage of their portfolio that's available for speculation. So you've talked about your interest in,
you know, Bitcoin, or crypto or Manero, or whatever, you know, the IPO and whatever it is, you're speculating on
investing, hoping to buy low, sell high, having zero control over the appreciation? What about the rest of your
portfolio? What about the conservative side of your portfolio? What about the tax advantaged side? What about the
privacy side? It was it well, bitcoins private, well, good to have that argument. If it's tech, it's track, that's a different
discussion. But anyway, so. And again, the idea of using news is, is that you can go third party, to kind of set up your
premises, you can, you know, if you're going to make a case for something, you start with a third party Foundation,
this is the premise that I'm building my logic on, like, and then you go from there. Alright, so I'll shift back to a clue. So
it's just gonna be kind of this vacillating thing because | had my head in the sales space. Sorry. Okay. So quick. Yeah.
JOHN.

23:49

We're talking news now. Yes, thank
JO

Russ 44:31

Again, | just take the problem and | break it down into chunks. So the first thing | do is | get rid of the idea that it's
global, and | bring it down to local number two is | look at the actual cost and what are the issues and are the issues
permanent or not permanent? What's going on? Right? And so there's a lot of that discussion. | just got done looking
at a chart from the Fed showing, you know, the housing price shows the bubble of 2008 and then the dip afterwards
and then the climb back up. You look at the trend line. | would agree that we're probably not in a bubble. | think a
bubble is potentially forming. But again, you have to put it in the backdrop of the context what what's causing this,
and everybody in the industry is reporting. It’s a lack of supply. That's the problem. Too many people bidding on too
little inventory. Okay. So, are they going to overbid? Maybe, to me, | think you know, who cares? I'm going to protect
my equity either way. Okay. All right. So | want to move on from that. | see you guys all sharing all kinds of stuff with
each other in there, which is super cool. Maybe we can find a way to include this in the video. So people down the
road can see all this great stuff. Yeah, | see Jeremy put something in here about supply and demand on lumber. So
figured the guy who's a builder would would know that. And that’s exactly. You know, where you go, you got to go
find people that are really in the space, not speculating, or just reading the headlines like me, but guys that actually
live in the real world. Okay, all right. What else? What else is going on out there? We've got 14 minutes left to go,
notwithstanding the fact that | messed up in the beginning and did a semi sales clinic. But Kelly, back up again. Got

to unmute.

46:14

Yep. So | don't want to pick all the time. But | just wanted to follow up a little bit on the question, where we've got a
lot of the clues in the news of like the lumber it’s not just lumber, though. It’s it’s a lot of products on shortage. And,
you know, that's going right in hand with what you're talking about with the labor and where that's been going. But if
we take the the idea that the dollar falls, and you get go into a hot war with China, for example, | mean, but China's
our main debt, how do we keep printing money, when we have all this stuff, compounding and nobody wants to buy
that debt. Because the Fed

Russ 46:57

buys it. Hurry, that's what's going on. That's what you're for Japan has been doing it for forever. Right fed Japan's
GDP, you know, debt to GDP is something like 250 plus percent, maybe even bigger. Simon black just put out a his his
notes in the field. And he just commented that the Fed, they just announced the first half of the fiscal year 1.7 trillion
in debt deficit already 1.7 trillion for half a year. mean, you know, we're on pace to go well over 3 trillion this year, the
whole federal budget was only 4 trillion, you know, a couple of years ago. So it's almost all all all all financed, but the
Fed prints it. And so | read Stephanie Kelton book, the deficit myth, and the people who are mmt ears, modern
monetary theorists believe that. And | think I've commented on this before, but the basic concept there. And this is
what most of the people with their hands on the levers, this is what they believe. They believe that they can print as
much money as they want, as long as they are borrowing in the same currency, they have the ability to print, there’s
no chance of default. And the only way they know they've printed too much is if there's inflation. And | listened to it
with an open mind. But | mean, her whole premise was based on that one thesis. And | think thesis is faulty at its
base, because anybody that's ever run a business puts a lot of time into reducing costs and improving efficiency. And
if you're not permitted to lower prices, when you do that, there's no benefit to the marketplace. And there's no benefit
to the entrepreneur, because the inflation steals it. And yet, it doesn't show up in the numbers, right prices don't,
quote unquote, go up, or they don't go up as much as they should have. But all that productivity gain is completely
stolen. And that profit that would have been reinvested into creating additional productivity gains, eventually begins

to slow down the economy. So | disagree with mmt, although | understand it, but you know what, my hand isn't on
Jo

ability to own private property, to own a business, to own assets, there's no wealth. So the foundation of that is the
freedom to own property that it was and continues to be, to a large degree, the American dream. That was the idea
is that everything didn't belong to the king, and you weren't just a subject or a piece of chattel. And this is why there's
such a battle between capitalism, which is where, you know, you can, you can use different definitions, but at the end
of the day, individuals are allowed to own property, and communism were individuals or not. And so if you want to
talk about China, if we all survive, and we go to war with China, and China wins, well, then we have a problem. And
as an investor, all bets are off, right? Robert Kiyosaki found created a goldmine in China. Soon as he struggled, they
took it away from him, he had no rights, there were no rights. So if you're living in a world like that, there’s just no
investing, right? But so that that is the thermonuclear asteroid, to mix that all up, that blows up any investing
philosophy. So if you believe that that is a high probability, then eat, drink and be married, because tomorrow we die,
right? Who cares? But But if you're not there, if you're not there, in so you're saying, Okay, what would be the
repercussions of it, it could create a huge boom, because what would happen in a hot war is there would be all kinds
of money being printed to fund the battle. And as long as the battle doesn't take you out, or take out the nation,
then there's going to be probably a big boom, like there has been in every war. Now, of course, the hangover is going
to be a bear. You know, and we're already having a hangover from our war on terror and our war on pick the war,
right? We've been at war in a lot of different ways for a long time. And what's happened as a result of that had been
a lot of bubbles, industries are going to boom, demand for energy is going to boom demand for raw materials, it's
gonna be all kinds of manufacturing, because I’m pretty sure if we're in a hot war with China, we're not going to be
importing our weapons from them. Or the equipment, we knew we're not going to be importing supplies to fight the
war. So it's going to be a huge ramp up of domestic production and imports from friendly countries who are on our
side of the battle. Okay. So, but | think that, essentially, we've been at war with China for a while. | mean, I've been
reporting on this since 2013, when kind of occurred to me that China was going after the dollar. | personally don't
believe China is interested in a hot war. I've read a lot on this topic. And | think that they have been determined to
defeat the United States economically and supplant it as the world's economic hedge, Amman, and to use their
economic strength to build an army. You know, to quote Teddy Roosevelt Speak softly and carry a big stick, right,
Donald Trump spent a ton of money on the military and Joe Biden is doing the same thing. So there's no difference
between the parties. And the idea is that we're going to have such a, you know, a huge military force that nobody
would dare question us. The problem is, you get two superpowers, both playing that game, but one is willing to win in
the economic world. And it seems to us that we maybe are less so if we feel like we're gonna lose the economic war,
we might go, we might go hot. My opinion. | don't think they want to. But | think we might

2919

want to either, but | think momentum seems to be going that way, too.

Russ 29:24

Yeah. Well, again, you know, the | mean, your your your mission is included in the news. The purpose of doing this
session is twofold. One is, is to help you form an investment thesis that you feel makes the most sense based on your
understanding of what's going on in the world, and what you think the marketplace is going to want. And then the
second part of it is just trying to figure out how to use the clues in the news to actually go uncover those fears. Or,
again, the ambitions of your perspective. marketplace and then begin to present to them, those offerings that help
mitigate those fears or advance those ambitions, that that’s the basis of it. So there's going to be percentage of
people out there who believe what you do. | don't know that as a marketer, | want to make my living trying to
convince people who don't see the world | see, as | see the world, that this is how it is, and therefore you have to do
something. There are people like that, right? | mean, there are people like the Chris martenson 's of the world who
are out there trying to you know, they're they're the Paul Revere is, Hey, you know, the crisis is coming, the crisis is
coming, and you got to have those people. But that's not the business we're in. We're, you know, we're in the business
of identifying the crises. And we can rely upon the third party crisis Warner's, and then find a group of people who
Oo
O)

that, then what you have to do is you have to equip them with the same information, you would equip the that you
would present to the seller if you were going into that scenario. And in which case, you just have to approach them
with, okay, here's the common ground, | always start from the common ground, the common ground is you have
something to sell, I'm clearly interested, and I'm qualified. | want to buy and you probably want me to buy where we
have an issue is that for me to do this deal, my numbers have to pencil and here’s what I'm up against. Or | take that
back. What | would say is here's what we are up against, start using that word we you want to start making your
problem, our problem. It’s it's a problem for all the parties, the seller wants to sell, you want to buy, the agent wants
to get paid, right? We have a problem. Our problem is, here's what's going on in the real world. Third Party proof
everybody can see it. I'm not making this up. This isn't a negotiating tactic. It’s a fact. And so based on this fact that
none of us have any control All over, we have to try to figure out how to organize this deal. So that it pencils. And
now the next thing, once you've made it our problem based on something third party, you go to focus on meeting
their needs first. So, you know, he say, you know, obviously you've set your price. And we have a timeline. And those
are maybe Givens. But they're both flexible under the right circumstances. So what I'd like to understand is, what do
you really have to have out of this deal that | can help you get, and then you kind of carve out what they're willing to
move on, and what they're willing not to move on. Or maybe they're just like unmovable. You know, if they just dig in
and go, Hey, you know, what we got 48 offers, and we got a bunch of stupid money out there, and they're gonna
overpay, and | don't really have the time or inclination to deal with you, then, you know, | don't know that there's a lot
you can do, except say, Well, you know, if that something changes, let me know. And then camp out on the deal,
because the buyer who over pays may end up regretting it, and they'll end up losing, because they'll have to sell at a
loss to get out of a deal. That didn't make sense. But then you can come in and pick up the scrap. So, you know,
again, I'm less qualified, | think to give you hands on deal negotiating experiences when it comes to getting into the
real estate side of the deal. But in terms of basic negotiation, | mean, at the end of the day, the technique is you try
to get into a direct conversation with the principal, if you can, and the to do that, you have to assure them that
number one you're real, you're a short path to getting paid. Or, and, and that you are very conscious of making them
look good, you will absolutely 100% Be respectful, and, and work with them, not in opposition to them. Okay, and
you may have to present your case to them first. And then if they're, you feel like they're they're a little glazed over,
that's when you you know, you say hey, | am happy to do this with you. | think it'll actually help us both get this deal
done quicker, | get my deal, you get paid, right, you kind of make them become your agent, you move them a little
bit closer to you, as number one, number two, you whether you go to them or someone else, you start with the third
party proof, the immovable object that everybody has to navigate around in this case, you know, the numbers don't
pencil. And you show that you tried to make it work, you know, I've given here I've given there, but you know, this is
where I'm stuck. And so we're going to need a little bit of a little bit of give and take on your side to make this thing
happen for everybody's benefit. Everybody's benefit. That's the key point. And then the first thing you do when you
get together with the principal, if you can, is is you let them know, a you're serious. B, you know, you're you're very
interested in making it a win for them. And so if you ask someone how to make it a win for them, you know, they'll tell
you, and then you say, Well, okay, I'd love to do that. However, this immovable object is in the way, and | have a
responsibility to my investors. And so I've got to come up with something that pencils for everybody, then then you
move into a win win negotiation. And then you have to kind of inventory, what are their must haves? Where do they
have a little bit of wiggle room? And then and then you you just kind of iterate from there. All right. So that's what
handle that. Do you have any questions about any of that? Does that make sense? It's a pattern.

13:38

Yeah, no, that makes good sense. And | like that view. Just kind of a follow up question. Because we've got with the
buildings just under construction, so there's not a big pressure to take a deal. That's, that’s not gonna work. Do you
see on the market in the market? Do you see it? What's your feel? Is it gonna hold them? To me, it feels like when your

cost is so high, it it's got to check some time

i es AA.ALN
