JO

often, it's 100%, smokescreen, nobody likes this idea of commitment in general, and nobody wants to commit to 10
years. So they say, Well, can | get out in two? Maybe it's possible. But remember, these are not liquid investments. So
most real estate deals just take a little more time to develop. A person that really does have that kind of a timeline is
probably a better candidate for a debt offering, were something like flipping hold, or we're going to, we're going to
raise the equity to do the work, and then we're going to finance out of it. And if you have a path to that, because
that's not market driven, right, waiting for appreciation, market driven, we can't control it, we're doing the work to
increase the rents. Well, we can, you know, have a crystal ball on what might be changing in the market. If you'd
made that plan in February of 2020. Well, things change. All of a sudden, there's all these evictions and stuff going
on, or not just even evictions, but tenants not paying. But for the most part, you know, this is what the market will
bear in terms of rent. If we do this much work, it's going to cost this much money they'll take us this much time to do
it's a pretty easy equation to solve. So this is part a big part of syndication is understanding your avatar. Russ talks
about that when it comes to marketing, but it's also knowing your investors, what do they really need? What are they
after, for instance, there's this age old idea that there's a trade off between risk and reward, to get a higher ROI,
obviously have to take more risk. Well, that’s not necessarily true, but that’s their perception. And so when people say
| want a safe, secure investment, great, that’s an excellent start of a conversation helped me to understand what you
mean by safe, right? It's secured by real estate. It’s in a first position. We own the land, right? Okay. And then help me
understand what you mean by secure, right. So you just exploring those things, but there's an investor for every deal,
unless it's a crappy deal. But if there's a if there's a deal that has a 15 year time horizon, we have right now we have
listeners from our show Who are investing in teak. And they're buying a parcel of a forest, that won't be harvested for
25 years. So there's a little bit of income from what they call the fittings, but for the most part, you're gonna put your
money in today and you're not going to see it, or it's returned for 25 years, that’s just a very different investment than
the person says, Hey, I'll loan you 30 grand for 30 days. So it depends on the investment, what you want to do is to
figure out what makes the most sense for the property and the project. And then ask yourself, do | have people in my
world that would be interested in that, if the plan is a three year plan to develop a property from the ground up, sell
it and be done? Okay, that’s our target is three years might be done in two and a half might take five. But that's our
plan. Do | have people that will buy off on that plan? So there's no right or wrong answer here. It's it's mostly just
figuring out who your audience is. Now, usually develop an audience after you have, you know, a product or an idea
or a concept or a market. Yeah, another question or part of your question, that was pretty cool, which was, oh, who's
actually owning the property. So not always do your investors own the property, it's perfectly possible and quite
common that you raise money into an LLC, or some other entity, but let's say it’s a limited liability company, or the
managing member and their members. And that LLC owns the property. That's possible. They don't individually
owned the property, they own shares in an LLC that owns the property. It’s also possible that that LLC has a
contractual obligation with an entity that owns the property, not to get too confusing, and | don't want people to,
you know, go off the reservation here. But sometimes, you already have ownership of the property. We talked about
this at the syndication event, if you syndicate something you already own. So you already have an entity, it already
owns the property, you can assign all of those rights and responsibilities from ownership to the LLC. Or you could sell
that LLC, all the shares of this LLC. So the reason | bring that up is there's lots of ways to skin a cat. It doesn’t mean
that your your partners, your investors automatically are owners in the property, sometimes to get the best tax
benefits that make sense. You want to talk to a tax professional about that. But sometimes they're they're far
removed, there always has to be some sort of contractual obligation. If you do something like Dave Zook does, or
buck Joffrey, where they're investing alongside other folks who are doing the work finding the deals vetting it, they're
adding management experience and all of that, that's a little different than you're not a direct owner, necessarily. So
you just have to structure it in such a way. But | think the heart of your question is about win wins exit strategy, and
you design the investment to have a primary and secondary and probably tertiary exit strategy. And it’s gonna
based on the market in the product, if someone brings me a deal and says we're building a skyscraper in 18 months,
well, | know that's not going to happen anywhere. Right? That's that’s that dogs in hunt,

38:18

primarily was wondering who controls that, and then How and when did the investors get their money back. And so
JO

to work with them. But this thing is gonna sell out no matter what it’s like a summit every year the summit will sell out
no matter what. Yeah, | want people to come and share. I'm a cool people to come and I'm gonna encourage people
to come and if you ask me about it, and we have comments, amazing, but the end of the day, it’s gonna sell out, we
only have so many seats, and we're 100% everyone's going to be filled. So there’s no question about it. So | feel
confident. That's where you want to get to in your syndication, you know, you can raise the money, it doesn't mean
that you know, people have promised or anything, it just means you've got a really good feel of who your list is and
what their wherewithal is and what their appetite is. And you know, I'm going to get in this contract, I'm gonna be
able to pull the trigger or if you're financially in a position to bridge the gap. That's not your first line of defense. We
talked about that the other night and the orientation you don't get lazy you only lazy people use their own money,
says Robert and Kim Kiyosaki his mentor, Frank, if you if you use your own money, you know, it's like the last resort,
but you want to be invested in the deal. The point is, some people have the wherewithal to bridge the gap, and
nothing wrong with that. And I'm raising $2 million dollars, | got to 1.4. I've got six all put it in. But I'll continue to raise
after the close and by myself back out perfectly legal and acceptable to do that.

53:30

So reality, is it. Is it really better to go big at first, like this? Is my first time never syndicated just join the club? Or is it
better to do a couple smaller deals? And make sure you know that you have a few investors? Yep, get a little track

record built up.

Robert 53:49

The reason we say it's easier to go bigger is because everything is easier at bigger dollar numbers. You can hire
professionals, there's just all kinds of things that open up to help you but you don't want to get an over your skis,
meaning | have three people on my list who said they may or may not have 50 grand to invest, I'm gonna do $100
million raise. Well, no, that that doesn't make sense. So the challenge with a small deal is all the costs of the legal
side of syndication have to be amortized, if you will, over a smaller deal. Might ppm cost the same whether I'm
raising 300 grand or 30 million. So all those kinds of costs. Plus when I'm at 30 million, | can bring in World Class
architects and | can bring in amazing teams of people and | can have the bookkeeping help | need and, you know,
people to help me write and communicate and video and all that stuff. Because the deal deserves that kind of
attention that those kind of numbers, but absolutely, like everything in life you do crawl, walk run. So | wouldn't
syndicate $100,000 single family house, but | certainly wouldn't shy away from syndicating something in my
wheelhouse. Meaning | know Know the market or know the product type, right? | have a great relationship with a
developer or manager something and start there. Because a great thing about getting started in syndication is the
tool of momentum. When you raise 700,000, | think my first raise was 600,001st. One we did on our own raise
600,000. Okay, that's a lot of money, but it’s not that much money, right. And the bank made the majority of the of
the payment anyway, | mean, they brought more than 80% of the money in that case. So start where you're
comfortable, but a little beyond. So when we talk about, you know, adding a zero sum mentality, yeah, as quickly as
possible, you want to get to bigger deals, just asking me the folks that are there. Remember, we sat with a guy who
said you probably you guys, as you think of do small and you're dealing with mom and pops that aren't even
accredited, and that's going to be more headache than you can imagine. And he was right. So | was always a guy
that wanted to help the little guy, right? Not true millionaires and billionaires. But | realized a little guy comes with a
lot of challenges. So I, you know, don't start bigger than you could likely pull off. But we also say, you know, bite off
more than you can chew and chew. So somewhere in there is the answer and has to be of a certain size before the
numbers make sense. Next month when we talk Performa? Well, we'll see that there's a load factor to you know, your
promote and travel and, and your bookkeeping and legal and all that they have to get over that threshold before to
make any sense to even do a syndication. All right, everybody. Well, | think there we go. That was an awesome call,
love to have you guys on these calls. If you have a specific question. It’s always great to have an advanced this time,
we have three questions in advance. So cool. You should come with a question just in case we have time. But we've
got I've got a couple coming up. Some people are working on specific deals they'd like some help with. And that can
manifest two different ways in this call. We're on all in or non disclosure. So we could definitely look at a live deal.
And that's fun. We have a candidate for that for next month. But we'll see where it goes. The other thing is we do this
case studies where somebody just got into contracts. So then we go through the story of that and how the structure
and what the trade offs were and what the what the feedback was is they went to go raise the money, that kind of
stuff, which will be good too. So with that, we'll call that a day. Thanks, everybody for your time and attention. And if
you're watching this in the replay, join us live one of these days. That concludes our Ask the mentors q&a deals and
deal structure call for April 2021. Thanks, everybody.
through a whole bunch of hoops. You know, like, you got to go here, and then you have to go here, and then you
need this password, and then it’s gonna be sent to you. Like that gets harder and harder. But | like, | like live calls for
a couple of reasons. If it's anything that's complicated, and you know, there's going to be questions, you either have
to head them off the past, say something that, you know, you go through and say, Well, what are most people gonna
be asking this or that? Have you talked to one or two, one or two of your investors and their prime concerns you
address, or you have to leave some format for them to answer the questions, and sometimes easy, it’s just gonna be
onacall. And typically, like we're doing today, we will record that call so that it’s available. Got to be careful. You
know, the reason that we have scripted private placement memorandums that are put together by an attorney is
that words matter and every word matters. So one of the things our attorney is concerned about is when we go live
on the mic, like you can't control what we're going to say. So we always work from at least an outline. And | would
almost suggest at the beginning, you work from a script that your attorney has seen. So given that, you might to
start with err on the side of filming a video update and sending it out. That's different than a live meeting. Now, the
only other time a live meeting, | think is really important is when we've chosen in many, many instances over the
years to have what we call an advisory vote. So it's tricky. The advisory vote doesn't mean that your passive investors
are actually voting, and you're going to tally what they say and do that. an advisory vote is when you say, hey, I'd like
to get everybody's input, we've got a fork in the road, we've got three different things we could do. And as the
manager ultimately that decision rests with us. But we'd love to have your input. If you're interested, we're going to do
a call Thursday night at seven. I'll explain what the issue is for 10 minutes, we can have a period of time where you
can ask questions to get clarity, and then we can have an advisory vote. Now the advisory vote is that to everybody
raising their hand publicly, or logging into the chat, it can just be Hey, send me by tomorrow at noon. What you think
we've done this on a lots of different levels. Way back, when we started the one of our projects in Cabo San Lucas, it
was pretty clear that we could build more house than the architect had planned. And it looked as though one more
bedroom and make a big difference in the rent. That's pretty fundamental shift, we're going to go from a two
bedroom house to a three bedroom house. And we're building six houses. So in that case, we want to get everybody
on the phone to say, guys, gals, here's the deal. After talking to the architect, talking to the manager, etc, we've
decided here's where we want to consider doing is changing. Now, here’s what the change means it's going to take a
little longer, it's going to cost a little more money. And here’s how much more money so let's say the example
everybody's gonna put in an extra $18,000. But it’s gonna increase the ROI by 25%. So we're not asking you to make
a decision or share with us your feelings right now. What we're going to do is we're going to have everybody send an
email who wants to have an advisory position, and just tell us what what do you what would you do? And based on
that, we'll do what we do when you let you know, so | like live calls for that, too.

© Ben 19:21

That's great. Thank you so much.

© Robert 19:23

All right. Absolutely. That was good question, man. | think it benefited everybody. David caffee. Are you with us?
Don't see David on the list. Okay, what about Mark? Mark has a question mark Chase.

19:37

Yeah, I’m here. Can you hear me? Okay.

JO

© Robert 19:39
JO

always work. Sometimes you build and hold, this was very common for us when we were doing office condos, is we
would buy build and sell was the primary exit strategy. But more times than not, we end up keeping a building or two
as our profit. That's why | always had the for sale or lease sign out. If we got a lot of tenants without man, | could
create a little triple net investment right here. They don't need the cash, I'll take the building. So sometimes it's build
and sell. And sometimes it's build and hang on to ground up development is like that land and exit and sale. So this
is where you raise the capital, that is not to own the property, but to lend to the enterprise. So it's not ownership of
the property, it’s a note, it's going to be protected, it’s going to have a first position or maybe a second position if
there's construction financing in front of it, but it’s just a loan. And it gets repaid when there's a sale. So that’s a way
lend and exit refinance. Meaning that you're putting together a fund to finance it from a debt point of view with the
exit strategy being as soon as it’s built and stabilized. We're going to bring in traditional financing, and that's when

the investors exit. So that's a possibility as well. Now stabilized assets or

24:50

does it have to be a concrete period of time for for those strategies, or is it just when the numbers work?

Robert 24:56

Yeah, so you typically can aim But you really can't determine, like if our if our main exit strategy was upon
stabilization, we're going to refinance. Okay, what does stabilization mean? That means if I'm building 200
apartments, we've got to get 70 or 75%, occupied so that we have enough cash flow. So it’s a stabilized asset that
we can either sell or refinance. So how long was that going to take? Well, how long is a piece of string, it might be the
market can lease that thing up in 10 months, or maybe it takes two years in hospitality, it's two to three years,
typically. But it can take longer, and it can go shorter. So if what you'd want to do is have in your documentation for
your executive summary what the plan is, we believe this asset will stabilize somewhere between 18 and 36 months.
So you leave yourself maybe that's even to wider window 18 to 24 months, that’s what you're aiming at. But you use
the wiggle words we talked about, you never say will is are going to, it’s always we expect to we plan to we call those
wiggle worm wiggle words, because they give you some room, it's management's intention to refinance, this is
stabilization, which we anticipate will be 12 to 24 months from initially breaking ground. So they're very clear, you're
telling them what the plan is, but no one's holding you to the timeline. But you do want to have a timeline, it's not
going to be you know what, at some point will sell. Now back to the first example, let's say that your plan was to buy
it and hold it for 10 years, you're the manager. In this case, they own the property along with you. And all of a sudden
you get an unsolicited offer five and a half years in for some extraordinary amount. Well, back to Ben's question
might be time for an advisory vote, we get everybody on a zoom call and say, Hey, guys, | know we said 10 years, but
we've just had an unsolicited offer, our broker brought us a really attractive offer. My partners and | have reviewed it,
we're going to give you the highlights. And we're also going to tell you what we think. But we'd like to know what you
think. So you explain that and you say now, as your manager, we love working for you, this has been a great asset.
But based on this offer, we think getting out now and make a lot of sense, it would increase the annualized return,
because we'd be out early and and we're getting a good price for it. But at the end of the day, we're gonna listen to
what you guys have to say meaning you're careful not to say we're going to all vote, and the majority wins. Because
that's not how it works. How it works is you decide, but that's when you might seek an advisory vote to make sense.
Yep, thank you. Okay, now, just since we're here, let's go through the other side, which is a stabilized asset. So that
means you're buying something that's already existing. So cash, throw off one of my favorite terms, cash throw off
means we're just gonna hang on to this thing and let it just hemorrhage cash every month. And maybe you pay
monthly, maybe you play quarterly, that’s our primary strategy, we're going to have other exit strategies, because
you always need at least two, but our primary thing is we're just gonna, this thing's just gonna make us a lot of
money. Alright, another thing might be our plan is to grow the income long term, it's gonna take us some time to
grow. And then once it’s appreciated, back to the timeline, how long does that take? Well, the market will tell us
might be three years might be seven years. But the plan is, it’s a pretty stabilized asset, we're buying what we call a
our sewer was delayed by nearly a year and a half 100% out of our control, there was nothing we could do about it, it
was that exterior issue. But right when it hit, we did an update video and said, hey, there's a little bit of a challenge
here and every month for nearly a year and a half as part of the update video as well. Still no sewer. Here's the hole
for the sewer. Here's the line for the sewer, right. And so it became almost a running joke. But there was nobody who
said, Well, we didn't know there was a sewer problem. Nobody was happy about it. We weren't happy about it. But
we got through it. And then when it was done, my communication was well, thanks for hanging with us. And your
support has been great. And by the way, the good news about sewer is it’s in, it's done, it's covered up. And once
that's done, there's usually not a problem. And we've not had a problem with sewer since. So it's just about
expectations. And this is a lesson for everybody. When you've got people, especially people that maybe haven't
invested passively in real estate before, maybe they've been active investors, they want a house or two and now
they're stepping up to do a bigger deal with you. They are interested, some are really interested in some aren't that
interested, but they maybe haven't been through this process before they haven't had somebody else in charge. So
your mission is just to shepherd them along and make them feel like they're part of the deal.

Ben 12:54

So you mentioned something interesting, and this will be my last piggyback question. Um, | have been using
MailChimp to send like every two weeks, and if needed, we'll send it a little bit sooner. Yeah, MailChimp just didn't
update out to that list. But do you recommend doing it for like, if news like that comes up? Do you do like video
updates that you embed into that? Or do you do | just say, hey, team, let's get on the phone and have a quick call
and then deliver it via their call? What

Robert 13:25

would you rank question? So part of it is your methodology, kind of here's how we do it in our company. And part of it
is project specific. Like if we have a development project, and we're in the stage of getting entitlements and
permissions and submitting drawings and all that, there is nothing to see. And there's not a lot to talk about. So there
we might not communicate very often. Or say we're land banking, we found a great piece of land or the path of
progress. And our plan is the land bank it for eight to 10 years. We don't need a monthly update for that. Here's the
land again, right, you don't need a picture. And in our case, you know, we were developing in another country. And
most of our investors weren't coming down regularly. So part of the idea of the video once a month, that's a lot,
especially when you're filming and editing and voiceover rang. But it’s a lot but it’s a big substantial project. So when
people are able to see the progress, it wasn't designed to be our only communication. And really the videos are just
about the physical progress. Oh, here's another building Oh, here’s this gonna, again, you know, here the streets
being done. Look at the palm trees growing. Right? It was it was designed for that purpose. So sometimes you need a
picture's worth 1000 words. It could be still photos that you put together in some kind of montage. But video can be
very compelling. And also, here's the subtle part, when you're standing there at the project talking to them. It says
something that you're not even having to say which is I'm on it. I'm here. I'm looking at my own two eyes. Now that’s
not always the case. You're not always there. So if you're not, then you don't play that card, but that can be a way to
and then getting it On a calll, this is tricky. I'm a fan of it mostly. But you got to be careful because it only takes one to
put if anyone's ever been part of an HOA, or a committee of any kind, you know, there's that one, that one person
who needs to prove they're the smartest person in the room, or to be the wet blanket. And so you just have to be
ready for that. Often, what we'll do when we have a message to communicate is we'll record a message and send it
out. Now, as far as embedding it, | like using it in a tool, whatever the tool may be, but | like using it when you can
know whether or not people open it. So we don't actually typically embed the video in the MailChimp message, but
we send the link, and we know that they open the message. And then independently, we can see how many views
there are in the video. | don't know I'm not technologically savvy enough to know if you can, and you probably can
figure out if they viewed the video and for how long. | mean, there are those metrics and YouTube and those kinds of
things. But, but | think you know, what you're trying to do is get information to them without making them jump
Tm em rm me ere me nen emer ener ep men ems Teepe

looks like it could work, but then you have all that exploration to do. And absent syndication, just in a real estate
transaction, you're typically going to have some contingencies. So if you, in fact, walk through units and decide, wow,
this is not what | thought you have the right to back out of the contract. Now, we don't ever enter into a contract for
expecting to back out of some people teach, you know, just put 100 offers out and just take the purity, pick the ones,
the good ones, that's how you develop a relationship and wasting people's time, reputation, | should say, then don't
develop good relationships. So you want to be more prudent than that. But especially in a competitive environment,
you got to get under contract. And often, maybe always, you're going to be under contract, or at least Li before you
go to your investors. So that means that there's this period of time where you're raising money for the deal, you've
got your private placement, memorandum, all set, and you're moving ahead, but at the same time, you're getting
reports and making physical inspections and doing all the various due diligence, rent rolls, and, you know,
environmental and the whole thing. So a couple things. First of all, whatever the due diligence items are, should be in
your executive summary. That's part of your plan. At the most recent syndication, we have one of Ken McElroy, as he
calls them business plans, but pretty thorough executive summary. And that's one of the things he talked about is the
diligence. What is it that we're seeking to find out? We've been given a rent roll, okay, well, maybe we need to go a
little further than that. And there's lots of ways that you can decide what you're going to do if I’m building if I'm
taking over an apartment building, and my plan is to got it, get everybody out and redo it, well, then the current
tenants don't matter. But many times they do. And so there's that side, there's the financial performance, the lender
may have some conditions that are based on the physicality of the property. So the best thing to do is to you
mentioned expectations, and that’s a key part of this, Ben, is that you set the table with your investors that hey, it
looks good, and we're moving ahead. But obviously, if we find anything that would have us thinking this is a deal we
don't want to be in, then we're going to back away. Now candidly, as a syndicator. That's usually the risk you take,
meaning let’s say you go and you spend 20,000 dollars in professional inspections and so forth. And then you decide,
you know, this too much here, we don't want to do this deal. You really have a hard time going to your investors and
saying, Okay, well, instead of 50,000, here's 48,000. Back, you can do it, as long as it’s set up that way in the
executive summary that they're part of the diligence team. But normally, that's a risk you take as the syndicator. So
just keep that in mind. And then whatever the particular situation is, with the property, it's different. If it's through
development, it's different. If it's going to be a rehab, it's different if you're buying the fat cow, and you just have a
property you're taking over. And you want to increase revenue through management or something like that. So |
think the expectation part's important. And then | like enrolling people in the process. Most of your passive investors
don't want to see every inspection report, don't want to get a two hour diatribe from you about how you walk the
property. But people do want to feel like they're part of the thing. And | think what what |, what I've seen work well
for us in the past, is when we have any kind of an exception. So something came out better or worse or different than
we had planned, we find a way to communicate that to the investors, whether it's through an email or a quick one
way video, or you get in a call with everybody. But enrolling them in the process is good, too. It also does a subtle
thing, it gives them that reassurance that you're watching the ball, like you talk about the the general contractor that
came through and what two of his concerns are, and how together, you decided to mitigate it, that just has them
feeling Wow, wow, I'm glad Ben's in the driver's seat of this thing. So that's not why you do it. But that’s a benefit. And
you know, if in doubt over communicate, people can tune out and tune away, but the person that wants to know
everything, sometimes there's an unrealistic expectation, but you want to satisfy them to the degree that you can. So
your expectation is, hey, we're buying an apartment building, we're gonna have 30 days to be able to do all of our
reports and inspections, and we get two weeks for our go no go walkthrough, which is a chance for us to see the
inside of the units, I've got the team ready, we're going to do that we're going to walk through every unit, it's gonna
take us a day and a half, at the end of that we have to make a decision, we have to make a decision, you're the
manager, but always we and it could very well be that everything's great. And we're going to move ahead. And then
there's all the other things from the other inspections. But there’s also that part, which is if something doesn't gel,
there's then some different options. One is we can walk away from the deal, that wouldn't be our first choice to as we
might re trade or renegotiate the deal based on what we found, there's an excellent chance that if you come across
something, some severe awful water leak and ripped apart sheet rock in a unit. If you find that on your inspection,
there's a good chance to sell | had no idea was there. | can't tell you how many times we've had tenants in
multifamily buildings that didn't bother to let us know that there was a leak or a small fire or an infestation. And they
just they don't bothered like you know, and how would you know you're not inspecting the units every month.
you, you

Robert 38:26

are in the driver's seat as the syndicator the promoter, you're the person, the deal sponsor, that's going to make the
decisions. Sometimes people put a provision that says, if we change the budget more than X percent, then we have
to get buy in or as resale. Say, if you make a material change, for whatever reason, you raise money to build condos,
and all of a sudden you discover wow, you know, would work better here, single family houses, that’s a material
change, you have to probably go to your your investors and get them to approve that change. If you change the
documentation, then you definitely have to do that. But you're you're in control. And the timeline is going to be driven
by the deal. And the part about just returning their money to them is about making sure that we all understand that
their capital account, that's the money they put in is generally the first thing they get back. So they would love to be
in an infinite return where they're in on the houses money, and that happens in stabilized deals. You get to the point
where you can refinance, give the investors back all their initial money, and there's still owners. That's kind of a cool,
cool deal. Make sense? All right. Did David join us? No. He's got a great question, though. And | think we'll go ahead
and have have the questions so that everybody has benefit. | know he'll watch it afterwards. So David capital's
question is when a client asks you, when does your fund close? How do you answer right now he says | have $150,000
raised and a $2 million grace so he's he's part of the There, and he don't he doesn't want to lie or mislead. All right?
Well, this is a great question, I'll benefit everybody. Here's what happens. We're raising money, and we raised over
done. So we're raising $1,000,000.50 $1,000 minimum, some people are going to put in 50. Most people, some people
are going to put in more. And at some point, we're going to quit taking the money because we have it all. Along that
period of time, it can go lots of ways. As you've heard from my story of as we scaled, we got to where pretty much
every single deal was funded in one night, my preferred way to do it was to bring people into a room, do a
presentation, lots of pictures, lots of story, we'd have in the back any of the due diligence we done and rent rolls and
things people could look at if they wanted to. But that was the plan, people would put an interest form in, they had
to sign an interest form. And then that would give them a numbered private placement memorandum that we would
keep track of. And we'd have more commitments than we had, you know, room, which is a whole nother problem we
want to talk about, but in this case, he’s saying, Okay, so my first guy, raising a million my first 50 grand, it's like, okay,
when when, when we start, when's it closed? And the answer is, you don't know. Right? So there's a couple of things
along here, you can always, like we talked about have kind of a target timeline, you know, we expect to have most of
the money raised in the next four months, that's our target. And that might happen, it might not, you don't have a
whole lot of control. And hopefully, you're gonna have enough of an idea about what the timeline is and what your
prospect list looks like, and how much time you have to go through the process of raising money and how much help
you have on your team, you're gonna have a pretty good idea. On your fourth and fifth and 18th syndication, you're
gonna have a really good idea. But to start with, who knows. Some of the things we deal with early on is we don't
know if we roll this up the flagpole if anyone's gonna salute it, this might not deals, which is why we always do that
cursory and you'll learn that How to Win funds. But if | can show you a return like this in a market like this, is there
any reason you wouldn't be interested in learning more? And the reason Russ uses that phrasing and so the answer is
well, no, because that’s what they want to say no, they're trying not to say yes, they want to say no. So you make sure
that a no is a yes. Hey, if | can provide that if | can find a way to get you what you want. Is there any reason you
wouldn't move ahead? To tie down and they go on? No, | would love to move ahead. Okay, great. Well, let's get to
work on that then. And so in this case, he’s not sure how long it’s going to take. So you're upfront about that. Now,
there's two other parts of it. One is, in some cases, like, if it's a stabilized asset you're buying, you're not closing on it,
until the last guy's money is in. What if it takes a year? Well, then the first guy who put his money in is not making the
same annualized return as the last person. And that's a reality of syndication. We don't like our raises to drag on for
too long, because we want all the money to come in about the same time, there’s ways that you can create different
classes and things. But it’s all better if you can get the money in a pretty quick period of time, which is why you don't
bite off too much more than you can chew. But you want to be upfront about well, we're not sure now in David's case,
| know that his syndication has interim points, meaning they're going to buy more than one property. So when they

get to a certain level, maybe they can execute and buy property one, they get to another level, execute and buy
property two, that’s called a min max raise, meaning minimum, we're going to buy two of these things at 250,000,
that’s 500, the maximum is going to do is buy eight of these things at 2 million. That's what our raise is. So your raise
isn't specifically a million, it's anywhere from 500,000 to 2 million, perfectly legal resources, those all the time, we've
had good success with those kind of raises. But the other thing, it allows you to do kind of the highlight of when you
have an early on investors, you can roll them into the process. So hey, we're thrilled that you're part of this
investment. And you obviously think it makes sense as do we, who else do you know in your world that maybe we
could show this to maybe you've got a friend, maybe a business associate that would also be interested, if you're
interested, maybe you know, some other folks like you, generally birds of a feather flock together. So it can also be a
great technique to get new investor referrals out of your existing referrals. So you don't want to lie. You don't want to
make promises you can't keep but it's perfectly okay to say I'm not 100% Sure. We expect it to be, you know, six
months to raise all the capital, but a lot has gone on in the last year. And | think if COVID taught us anything, it’s that
expectations have to change. And reality is what route is going to be based on what's happening in the market. So
that's, you know, we're trying to look for all the silver linings, we can with COVID. But that's that's one of them. Like,
you can't really plan. | mean, we're going to plan we have our primary exit strategy we know we're going to do but we
also have to be completely prepared to pivot because that’s what the world has taught us. Okay, so there's that. And,
David, you're an inner circle so you can reach out if you need more clarification. Ah, that leaves us some time, | think,
is there anybody else that has a question they'd like to address, it could be about something we've already talked
about, or it could be something completely new. And | have you on speaker mode. So | can see raise your hand, you
can just unmute and jump in there. There's not that many of us.

oO 45:18

| don't want to keep talking and take somebody else's time. But if nobody's got another question, I'm going to ask a

follow up off of what we just talked about. Oh, good. Well, welcome to the club. So if we make an offer, and we, you

know, get an acceptance from the property owner, don't we only have a certain amount of time to go and raise that
money?

@) Robert 45:41

Yes, absolutely. This is one of the age old dilemmas that syndicators face is if you don't have the money, what you
want to do is have confidence that the money's there, meaning that you've already talked to your prospects, you say,
Hey, we're working on something. And | don't have all the details yet. But just checking in to make sure you'd still be
interested. If we were to find property that looks like this. And this kind of timeframe. Is there any reason? You
wouldn't want to hear more about it? Okay, great. So you're kind of, boom, call it conditioning the market, because
reason teaches us not to do that. But we're starting to plant those seeds. And you get an idea about how hungry your
investors are. And when they're sitting on capital. Now, you always have to plan for attrition. So the guy says, Yeah, |
got 100 grand, and your next deal, no matter what you call him, four days later, he's like, Oh, | spent it, | invest in
something else happens all the time. He was ready to go on the day talk to you, right? We face this a lot. When we're
selling properties in paradise people get down there and like, Oh, my God, it’s beautiful. | have to have it. And then
two weeks later, like, from where Where are you calling from? So in the moment, not everybody translates in the in
the closing, but you got to be really careful about structuring this. So if we don't have the property under control, we
really can't raise for it. Hey, | found a great apartment building. As soon as we raised 2 million we can go buy it.
That's really difficult. Lots of problems with that deal. Instead, what you want to do when you have a syndication is
to negotiate not only as much time as you can, you got to listen to your brokers and see what the market will bear.
But also, I'm a big fan of pre negotiating a couple of extensions, you might have to put more money down and might
have to go hard, but in advance, hey, we're gonna plan on a 90 day close if for any reason we can't do it, the buyers
option, we want the right to extend 30 days for another 100 grand that goes hard. And then you make the decision
at that time, do | or do | not. And that is a whole nother story how to make that decision. But there's definitely a
timeline when you get in, in contract, there's going to be a timeline for contingencies, there's going to be a timeline
April 8, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Deals
and Deal S....

@ Wed, 9/22 5:07PM @57:53

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

syndication, deal, investors, money, property, question, raise, people, exit strategy, plan, buy, timeline, years, part, contract,

months, building, market, stabilized, inspections

SPEAKERS

Robert, Ben

© Robert 00:18

Well hello syndication, mentoring club members, it's our Ask the mentors q&a on deals and deal structure for April
2021. Good to see everybody that's here live. And if you're watching on the replay, you're going to get some great
stuff today. | know that in advance, because we've had some great questions already submitted. So | think what we'll
do is, many of you on the call submitted a question, rather than me read the question, I'll go ahead and turn it over
to you. You can unmute yourself, and then you can ask the question. Before we get started on that, as we do this call
once a month, anybody listening live or on the recording? Who has a deal specific question, you can send it to us in
advance, or if there's something you have, on the spur of the moment, given time, if it’s available, we can answer
those as well, just for the benefit of everybody on the call we did a couple months ago, one of our members
suggested to be put together kind of a proform a template. And | have that in the works. So that's going to go out |
think we'll discuss that next call. If you've done a proform on a property or looked at them, there's tons of variables
and variety, but just to get to some of the basics for putting together kind of a template that you can start with. It's
not meant to be exhaustive or any of that. But just to get your mind around it, and so on. So look for that, probably
before next month. All right. With that, let’s see, we have a question from Ben Dickey. Ben, why don't you jump on

here and share your question, if you remember it?

© Ben 01:48

Well, | may have had amnesia from what | typed. But | definitely have a question. So all right, we're going through
the due diligence on a project. And right now everything's checking out pretty good. But as we talked about
managing expectations with investors, and the bank, and all the interested parties, just want to talk through, we think
everything's gonna go as expected. But if we come under any red flags, where let's say that the costs are going to
make the project not feasible, just wanted to learn some lessons from other investors of what, what to be planning
for if and when that comes up?

© Robert 02:27

Yeah, that's a great question. You know, part of your premise, when you find a deal in a market and you're putting

toaether a svndication is that vou looked at the cursorv ton level and said. Okav. if if evervthina pencils out. this
Oo
O)

JO

Yep, we gotcha.

19:41

So, you know, my question kind of revolved around if you're the GP or maybe you got a partner. So there's a couple
GPS, you guys, you're in charge of the actual deal, like you said, a little bit of piggyback off of that, and we're not
voting here on every little decision. You're in charge of the deal, right. You make the decisions. Proof just

Robert 20:01

so typically, yes, you can set it up any way you want. You can have management by committee, | sure wouldn't
suggest that the whole nature of a syndication is you have passive investors who are putting the money out. And
you're on the active side, you're doing the deal. So yeah, at the end of the day, the decisions are usually with the
manager, and the manager could be three or four partners. Right. So, but but the the buck stops with you guys.

20:29

Okay. And then the other question was kind of how do we get the investors their money back? And is the is the idea
to give them all their money back? Plus their their interest? And then does that mean just those four managers or
general managers, we now own it, just us outright?

Robert 20:50

Good question. And again, we'll talk through it because it's, it’s actually a great question. exit strategy is a big old, it
depends. And it’s whatever you sold to them. So let's say what you sold to them was, we're going to go in and buy
this 600 unit apartment building and hold it for the next 10 years for the production of income. So that's the main
exit strategy. That's, that's what you set out to do. So they're part of the LLC that owns the building, they don’t own
enough where they probably have to qualify for the loan, that's part of the value that you bring, etc. But that let's say
it's set up that way. At the end of 10 years you sell, they replenish their capital accounts, meaning a base put
$100,000 in the first thing that happens is everybody gets $100,000 back. And then the profits are split, according to
your executive summary, whether it's at 20, or 5050, or there's a waterfall that’s how the profits are split. And that's a
reversion. Right? Because you're selling the property, as the monthly cash flow goes out, it’s different. And it could be
along the same percentages. But as monthly cash flow goes out, you're gonna account for that and have expenses
and so forth. And some expenses are monthly, some are annually, some are one time you report all of that whether
it's going to be quarterly, monthly annually, I'm a big fan of quarterly, even though most settlements happen in the
apartment business, for example, monthly, just putting that report together every single month. Now, some people
are used to that because they have, you know, property managers. But then | know some of our syndicators do a
monthly and that’s another touch, it just becomes kind of a treadmill. So because they're passive, | like quarterly. But
it's also possible, we've got a couple of folks in the club, right now they're doing deals that work like this, the investors
are putting up the money, the project runs for a period of time, at which time, that's the end of the investors return.
And the sponsor is left with the property. That also could be the case, if you were doing a debt offering, I'm putting
together a syndication to provide working capital and call it a bridge loan for this project for 18 months, because
we're going to buy it, we're going to subdivide it, we're going to do work, and all the investors are going to be out in
18 months with a return. Nothing wrong with that as long as you sell it that way. So we covered this on a previous
call. But | think we've got different folks on the call and repetition is the mother of skills. So just apologize to anyone
who saw this already. But let's talk about exit strategies. Because there's different ways to structure an exit strategy

for development project, the probably primary is we're going to build something and sell it. But that's not how they
for closing, there’s going to be a timeline for your lender approval. And all those things need to be started as early as
possible. So again, you can't really raise the money, you certainly can't take the funds before you have the property
and contract. But so | we talked at the event about the different stages, the best thing is to be closed and own it
because then you know, you've got the deal. And you Reese indicates that you're already done. That presupposes
you have the wherewithal to close on something. If not, then you're in contract. And you've negotiated a contract
that has some provisions like the extensions, or a refundable deposit. If you're on contract when maybe you have a
memorandum of understanding or an ally that says we wouldn't we intend to buy your property at this price for this
amount. We do otherwise a lot there one page documents that kind of outline the high points. They can be binding
or not. But usually that’s what we draw up the the purchase agreement from. Now that's not true if you're using a
standard form or something. But it can just be a way to make sure everybody's signing off, if you will, on what we're
all agreeing to. Okay, you want to buy this lot at this price with these amenities. And these additions. Is that what
you want, okay, great sign here, we'll sign here we'll create the contract. So that that’s can buy you some time as well.
I've seen syndicators put an ally out, or even with an option, meaning say you paid 10 grand for the option to get into
contract within 90 days. Now the seller is taken off the market that campus so that anybody else an option is the
right, but not the obligation to do something. So that gives you a 90 day right to get into contract. But you're taking
the risk that if you can't get into contract within 90 days, they keep your money. So I'm not suggesting that's the way
to go. But sometimes we have to do that to make sure we get a property or you get into an LSI and as many are in
the LSI now you pull the trigger on your syndication documentation, with the caveat that we are in a letter of intent
we are we do not yet have a signed contract. That's part of what your job is, but we need to be ready because the
market strong and the minute we get in contract, we need you to be you know, ready to go to. So and that's the part
about expectations when you first talk to people about investing in syndication. | think the best time to talk to
Somebody when you don't have an active deal, then there's no pressure. There's no awkward when when's he gonna
ask for the money? And how do | ask him for the money? There's none of that. You're just saying, here's the kind of
things we do. And if you'd like to be interested, we’d we put you on our list. But at some point, you need to get that
the read on that list. Is it just a bunch of looky loos are there really people with real money ready to put it in? So it’s
it's an age old syndication dilemmas which comes first raising the money or finding the deal? If you're doing a deal
specific syndication? Well, you have to have the deal, but then from the time you execute the contract, the clock is

ticking. So that can be tough.

Ben 50:40

| guess piggybacking on that, there's really no reason other than contractual, why you can't continue to extend. So |
my particular deal, I'd negotiated a 45 day due diligence period with the option at a certain financial amount to
extend another 45 days. But if we get to 90, there's really no reason if we need more time, as long as the sellers okay

with it, we can just keep going.

Robert 51:06

Absolutely. The question is just it, you know, if you're in a very competitive market, and there's a backup offer and all
those, but yeah, you can always and sometimes those things come together, you do your inspection, you say, Gosh,
we found what looks like it might be best this. So we're going to need to have a expert come out. In order to do that
we're going to spend another 15 grand which we're willing to do, but because that's going to take some time and this
isn't just a run of the mill Inspector, we're going to have to in order for us to be willing to do that. We need an
extension that close 30 more days. MSL is going to go that's reasonable. Yeah, | didn't know there was this bestest. |
didn't think there was but there is, he wants to know, too, because he probably has some liability. So there's, there's
you can always extend, but it's a two party deal. Everyone has to agree. If the seller says, Listen, | got a backup offer
for 100. Grand more. Sometimes it's it's a race to the finish line, and there's no worst time to raise money, then when
you have 10 days to close, like all of a sudden you become desperate and anxious. And that's, that’s not for you. You
want every investor to feel like, hey, if they invest or not, it's not that big of a deal. You'd love to have them you'd love
JO

fat cow, we're not buying a skinny cow that we need the fat now for buying a fat cow. It's got tenants, it's got
management, it looks good. But we think that the market is going in a good direction. And we're going to do some
tweaks to get the rents up a little, we're going to offer Washington dryers for extra money, we're going to retool some
of our car ports and charge a premium to have private parking there, we're going to get the noi up. But what we're
really going to benefit from is when it goes up in value. So that means you have a plan, but you don't have a
timeline. Like how much appreciation. Okay, that could be in your documentation once the price once the property
has appreciated at least 20% in value, we will consider marketing and for sale. Okay, what's How long does it take to
appreciate 20%? We don't know. So we don't know, the timeline, but we know what our target is. That makes sense.
Okay, what else? callbacks. So camp x is capital expenditure, that means that we have an opportunity to increase
the noi not based on the time in the market, but it's something we're going to do. It's an ugly duckling. It's terrible. It's
got lazy landlord syndrome, and the previous owner should have done some work to get the rents up, but he owned
it outright what he cared was just cash to him. So that's where there's opportunity and that's often where there's
opportunity, and that's part of the money you raise, right? We've got a capex budget of 800 grand, okay, well, the the
syndication is going to have most of that in the bank, maybe we'll have a little money there, but we're going to have
to spend it first and then get it back as we get draws on our construction loan. So our rehab loan, so that may be the
opportunity that your plan is we're going to do something to the property to force the equity make it worth more and
We're going to sell it then and exit. Then there's this idea of flipping hold. Now flipping hold in our vernacular means
that we flip the financing, but not the property. So we do the same thing. But instead of selling it at that point, we
hang on because now we've just increased the noi we've increased the return. It all looks good. And now we're going
to hold it and, and, and cash throw off. And finally, oh, | guess that's it. Oh, stage syndication. So stage syndication is
another way that you can have multiple entry and exit points. We covered that before, so | won't cover it here. To
stay more to the nature of your question, though. | think that that mark, one of the things to realize is when you put
together a structure that buys out your investors at some point, in my opinion, you need a really good reason for
that. And if the reason is, hey, | want to use your money until it really is performing well, then | want to keep it all.
That's not really good sales technique. Right? That may be exactly what your plan is. But you got to be careful here.
Remember, there is no deal without the investor purely

31:05

my plan? | guess just one question | had is, are investors generally more concerned about when am | getting my
initial investment back? Are they happy just to let you keep it as long as that 810 percent return is coming

Robert 31:20

along? Yep, that totally depends on the investor and part of your exploration with the new investors to find out what
their timeline is, you know, someone's investing in an IRA. And there's reasons to do that. not do that. But if someone
has money in retirement account that they can't touch for 15 years anyway, then they're probably happy to have it
just sit there and throw off cash into their IRA. On the other hand, there are people that say, Listen, | need to be out
in three years. Anytime someone gives you a deadline like that, first of all, the shorter the period of time, the harder is
to create return, especially in real estate, because we have such high sales costs. But when someone says | can put
the money to work for two years, the first thing you want to do is find out why that is. You don't jump down the throat
with why you come to the sales workshop and learn the proper sales techniques. But you're going to try to uncover
what their real need is. And is it a hard and fast two years, I've had a guy say, well, because my daughter's getting
married, and | need the money for her wedding. Okay, well, that brought up a whole conversation about there are no
guarantees in real estate. And we can aim for two years, but there’s nothing | can put you in that | can 100%
guarantee the money will come out in two years, we could write a two year note at a very attractive LTV. But
remember a note means how do you how do you pay the lender and what happens if you don't if for some reason
they are unable to pay, then we got to foreclose and go through a process we know the market is going to be like, it
could be a long time to get your money. So you always want to explore just how important that timeline is. Very
Hopefully your manager is going through at least once a year and inspecting units. But and the reason | bring that
up is that it’s not unlikely that you find something that you do need to go back and renegotiate and say Hey, mister,
sorry, don't if you knew this, but unit 205. | mean, it's got some severe problems more than we feel comfortable with
now are my guys is going to cost $25,000 to bring it up to speed. So if you still want to move ahead, just give us a
credit for 25. And we'll do the work and then I'll be fine. And sometimes the seller recall, | had no idea. That sounds
fair to me. And sometimes the seller will say well, you know, it's your problem. Now, that's just part of the negotiation.
But the expectation with the investors is it’s either in your executive summary or in your conversation, that here's
what happens next, you're going to sign everything, you're going to wire the funds and we're going to get to work
part of that work is our go, No Go and our due diligence, which means we're going to go through the property, we're
going to have professional inspections, and third parties give us backup, we may do an environmental phase one,
sometimes a phase one calls for a phase two. So that takes more time and money. We've got some you know,
budget and so on. But two things can happen. One, everything could be great. And I'll let you know, too. Everything's
not so great. And I'll let you know. That makes sense.

Ben 09:22

Sticky mute button. Yeah, no, that's perfect, | think and on our specific deal, it's really to do with fire suppression and

just working through the intricacies on it.

Robert 09:33

And have you said anything to them about it? Is it a concern they are aware of

Ben 09:39

at this point, no. So that that’s something that | need to make sure because our plan what we told investors was
we're going to circulate a letter to the city to get their requirements before we move forward. And based on their
feedback, we'll let you know if anything comes back that you know would would impair from moving forward, so
that's that’s where we did this, that's

Robert 10:03

perfect. You can also use those things that pop up as an excuse to reach out, Hey, everybody just got back from the
property. And we found this, this and this, one of the concerns is around fire suppression, let me explain. And then
either again, you're writing that or you're, you're sharing that, and now they know, probably half aren't even going to
want to be bothered. And the restroom? Well, that's really interesting. And what it does is it plants that seed, so that
when and if something does come up, it's not the first time they've heard it. And especially if you have a say, of 20,
investors, half of them didn't open the email. Pretty common, by the way. Now, you have to have a call because you
need another 100 grand, but you still want to do the deal, because it’s going to make sense. And it’s a capital
improvement that's going to, you know, in your to your benefit over the years. So you get everyone ona call. And
someone was well, | didn't know this was happening. And three or four people go, yeah, it was in the last email. Yeah,
we know all about this. Now the one person who didn't open their email isn't made dumb is made to feel bad by you.
It's by the other people in the investment. And so now they will tend to have a quieter presence on those kinds of
calls. So this is just the experience having gone through a lot of these, nobody likes bad news. Nobody does. You
don't like it, they don't like it. Nobody likes bad news. But it's your job as the manager to bring them that bad news in
the right way. So part of the right way to bring bad news is to make sure that you've got that you're planting those
seeds ahead of time. So the earliest, you know, you know, some of you know, we have a big development project and
