JO

your investor questionnaire. So you can have a one on one sales call with them, so that you can actually raise
capital. So that’s like the marketing side of it, then you have the sales side of it, which is, once you actually have
money in the bank and you they've invested, you converted them from being somebody as a prospect to actually
being an investor, then you have investor communication with them as well.

31:44

So I'm gonna get tell you where I'm at. So you can because I'm, | kind of had that | have the general outline, | think
I'm looking for more detailed. So | have like 200,000 followers on Instagram, or they fought | educate them on the
process, | started buying real estate when | was 19. And | have multiple financial servicing companies. So | helped
them throughout the process. Many of those people are after what individuals that don't have the time to do what
I'm teaching, so they want to invest with me. So | do have a platform where | can get people to, | can do a Instagram
story, with the swipe up feature, whoever's interested in learning more information, | can have them go to a
clickfunnels drop page, where | can collect email, and name, phone number, email, and so on. And then | have Excel
spreadsheet.

Russ 32:35

So that's all marketing. And that's what Stacy's saying I’m gonna I'm gonna jump in here, because we're getting a
little bit into the weeds. And | want to, | want to, we got a couple other questions. But again, kind of in chunks, you've
got marketing, which is your outreach to get people on your list and then to nurture them into a one on one
conversation that one on one conversation is when you flip over from marketing to sales. Now when you have that
one on one conversation, you already know something about them because of what they responded to, just like you
guys are all came out of our podcast where we didn't know who you were, most of you responded to some offering
some free report some something, in fact, some of you many of those things. And that put you in our database, our
marketing database, which we use Infusionsoft and told us a little bit about you, when you actually come to an event
and we get to know you and we have a conversation with you if we were a direct sales company, which we're not, but
if we were as the real estate guys, then then you would go into Salesforce. And we've concluded that we have

enough things that this is an area we're personally improving on right now. We used to have it back in the day when
we were actively selling real estate and actively using our front end marketing to generate business for ourselves
right now, most of what the real estate guys do is generate leads for our sponsor. So it's a different game. But we do
have things that we do like bringing you into the syndication program and whatnot. But the point is, is that as you
begin to gather that intelligence, about what you're learning everything from children and birthdays, and you know,
what | call needs, wants desires, goals and objectives. And then you have to profile their financials, what they have to
work with, you have to finance profile their influencers. And | cover all of this in the How to Win funds and Influence
People training, if you can make it live and may totally should be there. If you can stomach watching the crappy
video that we created the last time we did it, you can watch it online, we're going to redo it and hopefully this next
one will be much much more usable in a virtual setting. But the best way, the best way to to to do it is to come to the
live training. Rethink Yeah, okay. So it seemed everybody seems to be muting. I'm getting a little bit of feedback. So
So anyway, so now you have to have a piece of software and specifically you said What software do you

recommend? If you don't want to swing for Salesforce, there are just desktop. You know, Craig here put Zoho has a
version. Microsoft CRM is a, you know a version, we used to act back in the day, which | still love if you're on a
Windows platform. There's gold mine. They're highly customizable, contact centric, relational databases, and you can
customize them so that when you learn, you know what kind of assets people have, and what kind of advisors they
have, what kind of investments they've done in the past, it keeps all a record of all your communication notes, | won't
get into all that. But what you want is a great customizable, low cost. And there's plenty of them out there. Customer
Relationship Management, which is about sales, which is about one on one, marketing, you can do Infusionsoft,
MailChimp, whatever, we use Infusionsoft. And then that feeds in some you can do both. | mean, you can do
marketing out of your CRM, for sure, you don't have to have two systems, you can make one system. But the key is,
JO

design and part of that is because | wasn't able to dedicate time, it's taken a long time because, you know, it's just
one of many plates that | was spinning. But | woke up one day and realized my entity structure had holes in it, and |
needed to fix it. That's why I'm so adamant on the point cuz | know how easy it is to make that mistake. And the
problem is you don't know that you have an exposure until you're exposed. And so | don't think that's something you
want to shortcut on the CPA front. A bad CPA will cost you a lot more money than a good one. Right? Brad some
rock our famous poster child is a guy that you know multimillionaire investor making millions of dollars every year
paying a million dollars a year in tax and proud of it, because he just thought it was what he had to do because his
CPA was probably a fine CPA and charging him hundreds of dollars an hour really did not understand real estate
and real estate investors and how to use real estate to drive tax down. And just through a conversation with Ken
McElroy on the summit led to an introduction to Tom wheelwright, the short of it is Brad doesn't pay income tax
anymore, he got it down to zero. And so the very first year, he paid | think we all right, 50 grand or something for his
consultation, and he saved a million. So the other CPA was less but you know, was he really, he cost a million bucks,
because he wasn't getting the job done. So you have to look at your personal situation, you know, and to me, the
easy thing is, you know, you hand your tax returns to a CPA and say, What can you do for me? And, you know, most
of them can look at it very quickly and know if if they can help you. You know, we mentioned at the SMC meetup
that Mike pine and Kevin de and | were on a call and the, the the client, | guess | don't think of him as my client,
because | was just there doing the strategy. But the end of the day, the person that we were all conferring on, you
know, for his benefit, had a $200,000 tax bill. And if we can cut that by 10 or 20%, you know, that's $40,000 of real
money that can be invested in creating the proper structure and hiring the right team. So | asked Mike, if you go any
reason why, just based on what you've learned from this guy, right now, we could we couldn't take a 20 or 10 or 20%
bite out of that tax bill, and he goes, I'm pretty confident we can. So you know, kind of a long answer for a simple
question. Beth Clifford says it very succinctly. hiring the best doesn't cost you money. It makes you money. So that's

my take.

50:04

or certainly when | went with the people that my friends kind of referred in town, another issue that | ran into was |
knew | needed a CPA, | knew | needed a lawyer, you know, | knew | needed these professionals, but didn't realize is
they weren't meant to give me a system in which to work, | was gonna have to come up with that. And | was not able
to design that system. And neither were the people that | hired to do the day to day things. What I'm learning with
professionals at Mike's level, or ratios level, is they're team players. And they work with you to design the system in
which you then work and then make their jobs easier, which also jobs that bill down. And and they'll work with your
operations coordinator where you can create standard operating procedures to where anyone on your team could

work in that without being at a level in which you can be able to design a system like that. And just real quick,

Russ 50:53

do | need, like I'm a ratio right now when I'm not actively trying to raise money? Or | mean, even to get like, like a
template of an operating agreement so that when | do | already kind of have a basic structure that we then just need
to tweak from deal to deal or would that come later. | don't think you need, you know, a securities attorney because
he basically prepares offering documents. So until you're there. The caveat is, is if you're out there talking to your
marketplace, you do have to have a basic understanding of what you can and can't say so that you don't violate
securities laws, you're teeing up your audience for an offering to come later. But we cover all of that in the platform.
And in the Ask the mentor so you can probably get whatever legal advice you need from Mauricio prior to prepping
documents, just from being on these calls. And listening to the content that's come before. But you know, that's really
Mauricio, his role is to prepare those those documents. And of course, in order for him to do that, to Jeremy's point,
he has to be familiar with how the document needs to be structured, if you're trying to accrue tax benefits to yourself,
or to your investors. So he’s going to need CPA involvement, because he can't give you tax advice. And of course, he
needs to. He needs to also | get distracted by these, these chat, sorry, | should pay attention to what I'm saying. But
but he also needs to make sure that the documents are probably properly drafted with respect to your entity
structure, so that your interest is held by the proper holding company, and that your asset protection schema is
upheld by the documents, because he'll be able to verify your corporate formalities. Did you use the proper entity is
the signature block correct? Are you signing is the right person. So he has to be aware of those things. And of course,
it's you know, to Jeremy's point, it's a lot easier when everybody's already playing as a team because they talk to
each other all the time. And so they pick up the phone and say, Hey, I'm working on this for this guy, you know, what
should the signature block be blah, blah, blah. And then when you convene them, you forego all of the introductions
and the posturing and the rooster ring around, and everybody trying to retain client control. Everybody knows that.
They're just working as a team. And | think Jeremy expressed it pretty well, in this last meeting, when he saw it in
action, the contrast is like night and day. And so you know, we're not necessarily here to say, Oh, you have to use
everybody in the network. But we build the network to operate exactly that way for that purpose. They educate
together, they work together, they consult together, we get them together socially, and events, and they party
together. | mean, it's a team and team is built on trust and friendship and respect, both professional and personal.
And so you know, we think that absent anyplace else, it makes sense. And then of course, there’s a whole lot more
accountability, because if they let the group down, it often bubbles up to me to Stacey to Robert, and we find out
and then we go figure out, you know, what's going wrong and why. And try to come alongside them and help them
candidly, you know, our program is busy enough, it keeps them busy. And sometimes they’re not as responsive, if
there's a weakness with the group. They're not as responsive as they need to be. And that’s something Stacey and |
are working on with all of them. Because they're victims of our success, if you will, in terms of growing the program.
So the the that’s the price you pay right now until we solve that problem. So I'll I'll let you know that we know it's a
problem. And it's probably going to be a problem for a little bit until we fix it. With that said they're committed to
fixing it and so are we, the trade off is that you get somebody once you are in the system, you know with them, you
have a team. So you know for those of you that are like chomping at the bit, you're ready to go and you're way over
your skis then some of you that are in queue are going to get pushed further back the line because you know you
want to move forward but you're not in the same situation to somebody that's got a burning fuse. So there's a little of
that juggling going on to just to be candid. But again, that’s the advantage because we have a little bit of insight
into where everybody's at, because the group is still fairly small. And so we can manage that. And well, Stacy is
helping everybody scale up, you know, both on the provider side, and also on the, on the syndicator. side, | think that,
you know, ultimately, we're going to get all this stuff dialed in, it'll be a lot more robust for everybody. Okay, long
answer. But there you go. So, anybody have any comments on any of that? Because | don't see any new questions.
We are nearly at the top of the hour. So | want to make sure that if we do have another question, we deal with it, or if
anybody has any comments about anything, john, | see you waving your hand. So first come first serve.

@) John Graham 55:48

So my question is, is unfortunately wasn't able to travel to the weekend get together? Wish | could have but oh, well, |
can't get there. What is there available for resources that occurred there that | will be able to get? This is just a what
don't know, it's great question. What do you record? Yeah,

© Russ 56:07

so we videotaped everything of substance, the panels, the discussions, presentations, that’s all in post right now post
production, how long it takes to get it from there to the platform. There's some variables that we're trying to control.
But but it’s definitely coming. So everything that we covered there is coming up. And | think you'll you'll like it. | think
that, you know, at least | came away feeling like it was a really solid meetup. And we had really good content. Really
good.

aa 1 I ad I rr ARN
somebody connects the dots for you, you might get the job done, the current might transfer, you know MIT from from
one electrode to the other, but you don't get a very fat Spark, and you certainly don’t have any energy. So if you're a
little bit frustrated, that’s good you're supposed to be but the Ask the mentors is designed to help you do that. So
coming back to more practical tactical, | would say the first thing that most people completely blow, which | think is
super important, and we just covered this at the last meetup is the first thing you have to do is you have to protect
everything you've already built. You have to get your asset protection your estate plan and your business entity
structure organized to based on your particular needs. And there is a module that | did with Kevin de and there that
you can take a look at. And Kevin and | are going to be working on some additional content in that in that vein, but |
would encourage you to watch that content. And then and then you know, you can, I'm probably going to be doing
something with Kevin. So, Stace, maybe what we can do is come up with some type of, you know, production
schedule or something to get that done. But I'm not going to get into the weeds of how to do it, I'm just going to
chunk out what needs to be done. So the first thing you do is you just organize your your structure to protect your
existing assets, and to have a go forward structure that you can operate in. Once that's done your accounting, your
CPA can come in and overlay on top of that a bookkeeping system, so you know how to handle cash. Okay, and
when money comes in, when money goes out, that's really important. But you can't do that until you have the
structure in place. So it starts with the legal structure. And then there you can, you know, you can delve into how
much technology you really need to have, this is a simple business, you don't have to have 100,000 investors, | mean,
you can do quite well with 50, or 60. So you can manage that all out manually if you want to in the beginning just to
know where the bodies are buried, you know, but, but you know, certainly the accountant will help you with the
accounting technology, you probably are going to want to have a decent CRM could be just, you know, a client
based one, you know, we used to act for a long time, we're migrating on to Salesforce right now. People, you know,
whatever, little CRM, but you have to have a way to organize and segment your contacts and profile them and follow
up with them. So that's probably the most important technology that in the accounting technology are the two
pieces of technology mostly need, it’s not bad to have a public presence, you need to clean up your, your your brand,
publicly, look at your social media looked at your LinkedIn, think about what you're going to do in terms of a website,
how are you going to present yourself digitally, because that's the first place people are going to go to do due
diligence on you. And make sure that that's in place. So that to me is a key piece of infrastructure, you know, if you're
using a UPS Store is your office and somebody Google's your address, and you're running a syndication business
trying to raise millions of dollars, and they Google do a Google Earth and look at the building, and it's a UPS store
that just doesn't show well. So really, really think through your digital presence, and how you're going to create the
appearance at least if not the reality of credible physical appearance, because people can configure that out. So
once all that is kind of done in your Telecom, you know how people are going to email you and how people are

gonna call you, you know, those that kind of basic infrastructure, then, you know, you gotta, you got to understand
what you got to do to raise money to be able to go make money is you, you have to go out there and begin to build
relationships with people and have conversations. And those conversations, you're collecting an inventory, you're
building an inventory of prospective investors, that you have some kind of an idea about what kind of investment
results they're looking for what kind of a time frame. And if you look on our website at Real Estate guys radio.com,
under the Resources tab, you'll see the investor registry. And that is just a profile where investors can profile
themselves. And that's a good starting point for collecting information and profiling your investors. And then as you
develop your business, it'll become you'll organize your database to profile them even further. And then so that's on
bringing the money in. Then on the other side, you're going to look at bringing on the deals, you have to ask yourself,
well what markets do | want to be in? And it starts with it starts with this is like what's my investment thesis? What
am | what am | trying to accomplish? Well, your money will tell you that, you know, if your money is all looking for
passive income, that's you're going to invest a certain way if they’re all looking for tax breaks, | mean, Dave Zook and
Eric Shelley have just hit a gold mine dealing with a fluent business people that are having liquidity events as they
sell their businesses and offering them tax breaks. Some people are going to be very interested in privacy, some
people are going to be interested in capital gains, some people are going to be interested in diversification in
different markets, maybe different countries, different asset classes. So if all kinds of different things that you can do,
but you know, you can either say you're going to build it around what you're personally interested in, go look for
people that are interested in the same thing as you are, or you're going to be out there looking for things that are

what the people that you've already located are willing to invest in, and then you make it your mission to serve them
JO

think could could At least be a little bit helped. And from my perspective, | just like | ran out at the the things that |
wanted to do. And then | felt the pain points and then went searching for the answers. | loved reading those books,
and | read Rich Dad Poor Dad around 19. So I've been reading, you know, these emails and the books like this for
quite a long time. And they've always said this information. So what was the disconnect? Where was the size of that
spark plug? Yeah, that | didn't start out like that, that I've had X amount of trials, where was | not listening was |
ignoring it was | you know, and | think that, when you break down back to the teacher appears, when the student is
ready, you're gonna hear that information depending on where you're at when you're looking for that information, or
when you're hearing that information. And so Okay, so we know that too. And we, we know, we need mission vision
values, and we don't write them very well. And they don't really show what we really want them to at first, and then
we hide them in a book somewhere where we can remember when someone asks us. So other than doing that,
instead of doing that, no matter whether you start at one of the things that | said was most important to start, or you
pick your own, because you have control to do that. And we don't always have to listen, or what are or or some kind
of storm comes your way. And you pick something because of that, whatever it is, and whatever information you're
studying, at the same time, when you feel like okay, I've learned that well, learning that is going through it and
adjusting it and all that. And | think you could collapse timeframes, | don’t know, because I'm still struggling through
this. But just like the post assessments after event, if mission vision values is something that you're more focused on,
and you write those things down, and then you go to the next step, when you're working through that next step, at
the end of the day completely stop, get your mission vision values out, or whatever else that was that you were
reading through and is what I'm trying to do. And then make sure that those things that you did aligned, and then
documented. And and as you're documenting it will, we'll find things that we aren't doing that we thought we learned
we thought we were doing, but we weren't we weren't doing it at all. I've advocated | say, you know, well, Russ says
you got to delegate instead of advocate and advocate over and over and over again, we're, what if | would have
done that that poorly. If | was saying, Okay, these are St. Michael highest five level the delegation or whoever you
want to find? If | would have gone through that list and say, No, you're just you're just talking, you're just saying or
you're going to delegate instead advocate, but what you're really doing is you're just continuing to add. Okay, so
that's just practical, real world things that I'm going through. And | hope it helps.

Russ 27:45

Great, thanks, Jeremy. Bass gal, if | said your name correctly, | know you've taught me how to say your name. But you
have a question. So once you unmute yourself and lay it out?

27:58

Yes, so my question. It's going very well, right now | found assets. And basically, | could buy them without partners,
but I’m practicing out and kind of perfect the process. And | have a decent amount of people interested, I'm close,
I'm north of the 20. people interested in investing with me. And, um, | now need a management system, because | feel
it's so kind of tedious. It’s, | feel like it'd be better at managing the relationship. And not only that, I'm concerned that
if anything were to come up, | would like to have a system that could document everything, because I’m very good
with disclosing the pros and cons of the deal. | just want to make sure that | have it documented properly. So | was
you mentioned Salesforce, and from what | understand, Salesforce has a lot of little details where you can change it.
And | feel that that might be too too large of a platform for me to take on right now just because I'd rather have
something that's kind of pre done for something that you know, for syndication. So | was wondering what software
program would you recommend using for someone that has, you know, let's say up to 100 investors or 1000 investors
that they're trying to communicate with?

Russ 29:33
haven't recognized from the website, where is the Hey, read these five things first, then these 10 because | haven't got
an ongoing business yet. | need to establish my ongoing business. So | haven't even got you know, any revenue
coming in from a syndication business point of view. You know, we got food on the table, so that's fine, but haven't
gone to the Next step. So my question is, is, is there a preferred order that | should be going through after | get clear

on my mission and values and, and goals and move that through?

@ Russ 10:16

Yeah, and I'm sure Stacy will have something to say on this. And then again, those of you that have moved down
that this path, I'm gonna lean on you to chime in as well, because you have real world experience, also. But basically,
what you're asking is okay, I've kind of figured out who | am and where | want to go, and how | want to get there in
terms of, you know, values and culture and stuff like that, because that tells you what kind of customers tells you
what kind of people you want to hire, if you've got some type of a basic investment thesis or business model concept.
So you've got all that figured out. So now it's just the nuts and bolts of how do | go from not being a syndicator to
having a structure to operate in so on the platform, there is a piece of content that has to do, | talked about a tree.
And | talked about the idea of your root system being the mission, vision and values your trunk is the is the
supporting structure, which is your legal, your accounting, and your technology, infrastructure. And then you have
three major branches. You have one branch that locates and onboards investors and money, you have one that
locates and onboards deals, and then you have one that locates and onboards team. And when you grow all of
those three things together with a strong supporting structure, you have the concept of scaling and the we like to use
a tree as opposed to an organizational chart. Because a tree is a dynamic living organism. And | really think that's
what a business is, you've got individual cells, which are individual people, you draw nutrients in from the ecosystem
that you're in, you're rooted in your mission, vision and values, and you can only grow your branches as strong as

your trunk is. And so it's just a great metaphor for just understanding that the next thing is you got to identify what is
my minimum viable product? What is the minimum amount that | have to have in place and stays correct me it'd be
somewhere in there, | think, did we covered it in the fast start training, | believe in May of last year? Or was it may the
year before? | don't even remember, but and then | think Have you seen the eight part series, john that Stacy and |
just did. It's on our YouTube channel, but it’s also on the platform.

@) John Graham 12:43

So I'm on number three on that. So yes, | have seen it. And I'm working through it. | | like it. Yeah, | just | want to try to
make sure that I'm not just not going Oh, look at all the great content. But

© Russ 12:56

why Yeah. Well, part of part of your job in developing you is, you know, there’s no checklist in the real world. What's
in the real world is a whole bunch of chaos and bits and pieces, and you have to kind of assemble it. So it's a little bit
of art. And so we we try to leave a bit of a gap because we want you to be a strong entrepreneur, not a weak one.
Although the program is designed to help you compress timeframes in terms of getting things done, more important,
it's designed to help you compress timeframes, in terms of becoming who you need to become, to be able to weather
whatever happens. | think one of my core skill sets is | met my core and entrepreneur, you can land land me
anywhere where | know no one in an industry where | know nothing. And | can still build a business. Because |
understand the principles of business building. And so those are the things that we're teaching you. And then to find
out if you really know it, you've got to be able to figure out if you can pull all the pieces together. And we're still trying
to figure out how big that gap needs to be. in teaching. | like to use what | call the sparkplug principle, that is you
build a lot of energy, but you leave a gap. And then what happens is when that energy bridges the gap, you get a

nice fat juicy spark and you have you self actualize, you have converted you transformed into an entrepreneur,
_JO

JO

_JO

implementation plan, which is about getting to critical mass or actually minimum viable product, what do you need
to do to be able to generate revenue, and then having a formula to be able to take that revenue, and put it back into
hiring the help you need to systematically take more and more responsibility off your plate so that you are narrowing
and developing your focus and skills on those few things that are either very difficult to get rid of that you're great at
and that you love to do, or that you just absolutely have to do to nurture the business until the point you can
extricate yourself from those responsibilities. So that's my opening monologue there, we had a few late comers. So |
think everybody's in Stace, do you want to throw in any comments and piggyback on the back of that before we

open it up for questions from the folks?

Staci Gray 04:36

Now | think that was a really good overview of what it takes to get things organized and where you start from to

actually tactical.

Russ 04:47

Okay, well, that was nice and short and sweet. Good for you. So any questions about anything that | just said that he
came up for anybody?

04:58

I've got I've got a person Single Gary Keller interaction story that | can share. | think it’s interesting.

Russ 05:07

Okay. Is it anecdotal? Or is it | mean, is it something that's interesting or is it something that is relevant to what we're
talking about?

05:14

Oh, we're talking about?

Russ 05:18

Throw it out there. Go ahead.

05:19

That's a good story and you'll decide if it’s relevant. | think it's okay. So anyway, | was a team leader for a Keller
Williams office in Green Acres, Florida, which is basically West Palm Beach. Right when the crash happened. | got
the job. In August, the crash happened in September. And there | was with 107 agents with no business zero. So it's
very interesting times. A Keller Williams has something called an agent Leadership Council and you get together at

the beginning of the year, and and brainstorm the top 5% of agents in the office. What's our plan for the office next
it's got to really be focused on on capturing the correspondence, the intelligence and being able to build custom
profiles on your list so that you can quickly pull up a list instead of by memory a, I've got about 20 investors, and I've
got about, you know, 3 million pledged, | mean, you can look it up and you know, exactly the day they set it. And
then you can call them up. And you can say, Hey, you know, we talked back in and we visited here and there Oh,
yeah, yeah, | remember. And then, you had mentioned to me that you had about X amount of capital, you know, it
looks like I'm gonna have a deal coming down the pipeline. | don't know if you're still interested. But if you are, you
know, or let me know, if you are you do you think you might be or Has anything changed, and now you freshen up
that database. So it guides those conversations, that’s where your tech supports your operations of actually
conducting the sales function. The old days, | just used to do it in a ring binder, you know, and kept a file on every
single person, I'm just review my notes. And that's as high tech, | mean, you know, you can raise millions and millions
of dollars, just just keeping, you know, old fashioned file folders with contact history in it. But, but you can't run
queries very easily if you want to see where you're really out with things. So there's no reason not to use the
technology, but you have to spend a lot of money on it. So | think that

©) Staci Gray 37:25

JO

JO

know, from our my experiencing, working with a lot of the syndicators, we use Infusionsoft for marketing. And then we
use investor portals for tracking investors specifically in projects. And then for some of our other clients, like the
mortgage company, we use Infusionsoft and integrate it with Salesforce, because it can integrate directly. So those
are the specific tools that we use, regardless of what you choose, you have to come at it with a methodology,

meaning it all of the CRM, all of the platforms, they all pretty much do the same thing. The challenges is when you
just are relying on somebody who knows the technology but doesn't know your business model to help you build it
out, you aren't you're not able to actually utilize it. So you as the syndicator, business owner, thought person behind
your business, you have to come up with the methodology and architected. And then you can have people
underneath you support you and actually implementing it within that platform. So it doesn’t matter what you

choose. But you have to have a methodology.

Russ 38:31

Yep. Okay, good stuff. So step you have a question for Stacy. And I'll come back to you, Mark. | just saw yours in the
chat.

38:40

Hey, guys, can you hear me? Okay,

Russ 38:42

we can hear you.

38:44

My question is on delegation when you're dealing with sensitive documentation, so I'm looking for ways to outsource
or delegate some of the processes involved with with just the refinance process with investors and lenders. And there,
there's like, there's some things that are a little bit more, let's say, they're, they're more, they're more sensitive than
others, ei ends, if there's, you know, k ones that are being asked for anything like that. So any any tips on how to to
manage that? | mean, do you guys do you guys use a spreadsheet to track individual documents or is there software
to do it?

Russ 39:26

stays you won't take it.

Staci Gray 39:28

So we use all of our document management storage is done in either the investor portal or in G Suite. So depending
on where they're at, and it's just an individual folder, so it can be attached to a contact inside of an investor portal.
Same with Infusionsoft or whatever CRM you're using. You can attach documents in there. If you're not in there, you
can use it in just a document storage and have individual file folders for each of your investors. are each of your

projects.

Russ 40:02

So, Sep, I'll say this. And | think this is important. There's three basic vulnerabilities with your data. And some of them,
most of them, you can mitigate, just on your your own. And so the first one is that you need, you need to obviously
anything stored electronically, you know, has to be secured. Right, it can't just be out there. In fact, we we had a
situation, unfortunately, there was nothing all that confidential, but we were using Amazon, AWS. And apparently,
they contacted us and said, it looked like some of our back office stuff was subject to people being able to find it
through deep internet searches. So you want to make sure that wherever you're doing document storage is really
tightly secured by whoever is hosting that, obviously, Google is the biggest tech company in the world, likely, people
aren't going to get in from the outside the big threat with Google is Google. But that's a different discussion, right,
they're probably not all that interested in all the data you've got on your clients, because they have all that on them.
And more, again, different discussion. So the the other vulnerability is your team, because your team will have access
to that content, they will have access to those passwords. And depending on where and how they store those
passwords and their access, you know, if they have an unsecure, you know, sheet somewhere on their own. So you
have to establish protocols where your people understand basic security. And one of the biggest, biggest, biggest
places | have blown it and seen people blow it is the email things back and forth. And they act like email is private,
it's not it crosses over a whole bunch of servers. So unless you're using end to end encrypted email, those documents
can be seen by anybody. So and most passwords, unless you're you know, using a massive, you know, 128 character,
password, you know, with all kinds of characters and numbers and you know, randomly generated, like on a
document, like an Adobe PDF or something, you should never be sending attachments, over email or putting any any
sensitive information in an email, you should be sending secure links where they can access it online and download it
or view it like box or some of those other, you know, schools, | think Dropbox has some security feature. So, you know,
there’s places where you can online create online vaults where people can access documents, | know Mauricio has
told me that DocuSign as far as the execution of documents, is adequate for most legal purposes. So don't quote me
on that, but check with Mauricio or, or your securities attorney on that. But so you've got your you've got you got the
exposure online, you've got your team, and you've got email. Those are the three big places where | see people
create exposures. And so you, you're wise to ask the question, from a process perspective. You know, start with those
things, and then monitor those things. And then, you know, we'll continue to share ideas as we learn. And | don't
know if anybody else has any background in cybersecurity or any any feedback on on how you handle sensitive
information. But it's a great, great question. Your CPAs probably have good procedures in that because they deal
April 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Business
Operations...

@ Thu, 9/23 12:26PM © 1:00:43

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, investors, business, question, documents, syndication, mauricio, infusionsoft, structure, gary keller, crm, stacy, money,

bit, deal, build, call, salesforce, platform, passwords

SPEAKERS

Russ, John Graham, Staci Gray

) Russ 00:17

Hey syndication mentoring club, it’s Russ. And I'm here with Stacey. And we are going to be doing our Ask the
mentors for business operations for April 2021. And we have a good collection of folks, some new folks brand new,
maybe their very first ask the mentors series here. And so we didn't have any pre submitted questions. Always makes
it a little bit tougher on us because we didn't prepare anything. We're here to answer questions. But | have a couple
of things that kind of came up for me over the meetup, which | thought was really strong and really enjoyed it. And
so one of the things that came up, you know, we talk about all the time in in Gary Keller's The one thing and the
focusing question. So | say, if you want great answers, you got to ask great questions. So you come here looking for
great answers, and you don't bring great questions. Don't be upset with us, if you walk away feeling a little flat, right?
It's your job to go out in the real world press yourself. And even if your real world is, | don't even know where to start.
Or what what do | not know, maybe a question of the other folks that are a little bit further down the path. And |
may call upon some of you, Jeremy, to talk about what it's like to be a little bit further down the path. And some of
the folks that are who are just starting out and knowing what you know, now, what do you wish you knew, so be be
kind of thinking about that if you're a vet on this call. But the idea is, you got to ask great questions. And so the
focusing question is, you know, with Gary Keller is what is the one thing that | can do that by so doing will make
everything else | need to do either easier, or unnecessary? And that's talking about personal productivity, because
there should be nothing on your list to do that doesn't need to be done. And that really brings up the second
question, which is a question that doesn't come from a guru. But it comes from a very successful businessman that
we know we've done business with. And he asked himself all the time, every time he has something to do, how can |
get someone else to do this for me. So if you think about your operations, the concept of operations, especially in the
in the context of scaling up, or scaling your business, is to free yourself, really of everything, and build a business that
runs on autopilot, or at least allows you to only participate in those areas that you are both competent, and
passionate. And then of course, something that obviously needs to be done. And so even those things should have
redundancy, you should have an understudy. So one of the first orders of business in organizing your business is
figuring out everything that needs to be done, what doesn't need to be done, and then systematically going through
what do we need to do to get started? So | can generate the revenue necessary to begin to be able to hire the help
that | need? And then what order? Do we get those things off our plate? And how do we organize it so that as we
begin to scale, we can really begin to bring people on board quickly, with consistent results consistent process. In
other words, you can't hire somebody unless you have a system to train them to. So the beginning of your
operational journey is really aligning your mission, vision values, goals and objectives with some type of an
JonNnN Granam 30:56

| just needed to know what it is. | should have as an expectation. Thank

Russ 56:42

Yeah, no, it'll come out. And we always announced to the membership anytime we post new content. So every time
there's new content, you'll see it. Okay. All right. So anybody else have any last minute question? We got two minutes
want to give you your money's worth? Going once, going twice. Okay, Stacy, any any closing comments for anyone?
Nope, you're good. Okay, lady, and gents. | think that was a good session, really appreciate all of you being on the
call, again, go out there, get over your skis a little bit, right, you've got backstops, you've got people who've been
there done that. For the most part, you know, as long as you're not doing anything, that's a violation of the law, or a
direct threat to your financial well being or the financial well being of your investors, push yourself out into your
uncomfort zone, because that's where all the growth is. And first and foremost, for every single person, especially the
new people, get your public brand figured out quickly. | mean, it doesn’t have to be the brand you want to show, but
at least remove everything you don’t want to show and get all that cleaned up and start getting in conversations
with folks. And my favorite thing is to get in conversations with people about what's going on in the news. And then
don't tell them what you think. Because they don't care. Find out what they think. Find out what they think what they
feel. And you're looking for two core things, you're looking for things that they're hoping for. Working towards
dreaming of. That's what we call greed. One of the basic investor emotions, or the things that they’re afraid of that
they're concerned about, that are keeping them up at night that are confusing them fear, uncertainty, and doubt, we
call that fear. So when you're tugging on building relationships on either greed and or fear, you have a basis to talk
investments. And then from there, you know, if you let them talk a bit, you can you can bridge the conversation into
maybe your thoughts, your comments, but | would really stretch the conversation in terms of gathering Intel. And as
soon as you get off the call, | am going to make this an operation saying Stace, go back and use whatever CRM you
have, even if it's a ring binder, a file folder system, and write down everything you heard, everything you learned, do
not trust your memory. And then later on down the road, when you have your CRM and you want to add that in, you
can just scan those notes in and make them part of their history, you can use the information you find to organize
the database with the data fields that you want to be able to monitor. And actually the act of just doing that with a
paper based system in the beginning will form the foundation of blueprinting, your, your your, your technical setup,
it's no different than setting up a chart of accounts with accounting, you know, you go to your accountant, you say
hey, | want to set up a chart of accounts or | want to set up my books. The first thing they're going to do is is give you
a basic standard template of chart of accounts and then they're going to customize that to you as they work their
way through all of your receipts and bank statements so that they understand you know your money and how how
you are spending it and how you are earning it and then they're going to begin to categorize it based on reports and
outcomes and queries and things. You want to create this contact management is exactly the same. It's no different.
If you know how to set up a set of books, you can figure out how to set up a contact list. It’s no different. And so the
more information you have fleshed out and in paper before you go to set it up digitally, the more effective your
digital setup will be. Okay, so I'll call that the last word. This is a wrap for our April 2021. Ask the mentors on business
operations and we'll look forward to seeing you all in the next call. Thanks a lot.
JO

by finding finding deals and organizing doing deals that that are going to attract their capital. Okay. And so so once
you find the kind of the investment objective, then you come up with an investment thesis like how am | going to go
do that? You know, am | going to do value add? Am | going to do build? Am | going to? Am | going to do this myself?
Am | going to invest in operators, third party people, | happen to be a big fan of focusing on raising money and
vetting third party operators with track records, you're less likely to screw up a deal, you're more likely to be able to
escape unscathed. If the operator screwed up, you know, yeah, you're in trouble because you pick them, but you
actually didn't mess it up, right? You messed up the choice. And you know, so it’s just a little bit safer, especially if
you're going to delve into an area that you're not all that experienced or qualified it. Okay, but but once you find a
deal, then in order to be able to sell the deal, you have to get into the deal. And then you have to be able to organize
your offering documents, you have to have something to sell. And then that’s where your your sec, counsel, Mauricio
or whoever you're using helps you do that. Now, now you have your at minimum viable product, you have a brand a
business, a way to accept money, you have a list of customers or prospects that have a you know, investment
objectives, you have a deal pipeline, and some idea about how to make a match between what your investors want
and what you can bring them. And then you have offering documents that you can present them to tell your story
and collect a check. Now you're in business. To me, that's MVP, that's a minimum, you have to have to be able to take
a breath of income, right? And then from there, it evolves right from there, you get busy and you start having to solve
operational problems. And, and so that'll that'll help you come to these calls with like, okay, now | got a real world
problem. How do you do this? How do you do that? And the good news is almost every problem you're going to end
up facing, someone is either also facing, which means you can combine resources, and we can all go together
looking for the answer. But the odds are somebody in the group has already fixed the problem solve the problem.
And because Stacy has real visibility into the details of a lot of syndicators operations. And of course, we do too,
because we mentor the inner circle, we have a pretty good idea. And then of course, we can always reach out to the
group as Can you, because that’s what the forum is about. And that's what these calls are about. So long winded
answer. But since we didn't have a big stack of questions, | feel like that, to me is just kind of the logic. And of course,
| didn’t have to read a script or notes to know what to do. So you just memorize those, that basic tree, and then you
think about what you have to do. | didn't even talk about onboarding people, because that's a different problem. In
the beginning, you just got to get money in deals on a structure that will allow you to legally and properly handle the
sale the flow of money into the structure, all the while making sure that if something goes sideways, your personal

assets aren't at risk. Okay, so Stacey, is there anything you want to add to that, from your perspective?

Staci Gray 23:25

Um, to answer his just original question, | think if you go through the syndication fast start training, which is in the
platform, it's in the library, under videos, that's a great series just to watch. It includes personal syndication,
philosophy, asset protection, presentation, offerings, everything that he went through right now just in more detail.
And then also, if you watch that eight part series, it talks about the four pillars of building a syndication business,
which are raising capital, doing deals, managing processes, and leading people. And if you build out those things,
then you'll have the pillars in place for stalking as you grow. And then like Ross said, then you can go put it into
action and come back on these calls, after you've started executing with real world questions about, Hey, I’m trying
to do X, Y, and Z helped me navigate it because a lot of the content is on there in deeper on the platform. And you

have something to say

24:24

I've got something to add. So now there's much on the those actual techniques, it's more on, like a practical use. So
when you start reading any of your favorite books, most likely you're going to find similar information in this when
you go into those modules that Stacy’s talking about it's gonna really dive deep into you know, Russ and Stacy have
worked together on some of those and they really get in deep and it's really great information when you're seeking it
out. When you're getting stuck or asking other people questions when you're getting stuff, but they're getting stuck. |
with sensitive information all the time, it's not a bad place to, to ask them. I'll talk to Mike and see what he says and,
and then Tom, we'll write and see what they have to say also staysky make a note on that to make sure that we
actually do that.

6) Staci Gray 43:44

So for passwords, we use LastPass, we use a bunch of different ones. They all have their strengths and weaknesses,
but we use LastPass. So all passwords are stored in there and sent through law class. So you can definitely
implement, implement that for like internally. And then as far as DocuSign. We do that as well. And DocuSign
integrates with Infusionsoft. So you can create a tag and say, send so and so this document and it will trigger it, send
it via DocuSign. When they sign it, it'll let Infusionsoft know so you can continue the automation sequence. So that's

another design really answering your question, but another integration that you could use DocuSign with your CRM,

Russ 44:25

yes. And I'm not a fan of letting your browser remember your passwords for you. So you know, I'm not a tech guy, but
it just that just seems so such an obvious place. In fact, I'm not even, you know, I'm nervous about LastPass. So | have
a different way | handle it personally. It’s tedious, but it works. Never been hacked in any way. So just just be aware of
that. And then you know, it’s not just you, it's the services you use and where you store data. You know, you should
understand what their procedures are, and it’s probably good it would say is we should go to work on this is it Having
some type of a privacy policy and data security policy. And if we can figure out what best practices is, we will share
that with everybody so that that can be implemented. Because it’s not just communication, but it's data, document
control, and document storage and digital storage. So, but definitely don't be sending anything across unsecure
channels. That's like, number one. And number two, is when people who have access to things, you have to know
who has access to everything. And then you need to limit access to people that you can trust. And then you need to
make sure when anybody changes, you change it, you probably should just change things routinely anyway. And
then update the people who should know just to make sure you're always limiting the the amount of access to any of
your sensitive data. Great question, though. Set. Thank you. Okay, Mark, Chase. So you have a question. I'm not

going to read it. I'll let you ask it so everybody can see your, your handsome face.

John Graham 46:04

Thank you. Um, yeah. So again, just starting out and wanting to make sure | do it right at the last secrets of
successful syndication conference, you know, you really struck the chord with me with getting your asset protection
trust first, and your holding company and that kind of thing. So that’s among the first things that | want to do. And |
just wonder, do | go straight to the Kevin days of the world? Who were, you know, like the premier guys? Or am | too

small of a fish for them at this moment?

Russ 46:34

Well, | mean, | don't think so. Because it’s not really the difference in price, if there is a difference in price, | don’t
know. | know, I've gone through some of the companies out there that just kind of crank out entities, and you can get
the entities, that's not the issue, what you can't get is the planning. And the planning. | mean, it's if you if you
organize your structure properly, once it's set up, it's set up. So if it cost twice as much, and I'm not saying it does, but
even if it did, over the lifetime of the structure, it's actually probably cheaper than starting a business with a bad
structure. And then waking up one day, three or four years down the road and having to redo it all | know, because
I've done it twice. And so | have spent two years perfecting my own personal understanding and blueprinting my
JO

JO

JO

sure the stage you want to take that one? | mean, | have thoughts, but I've been jabbering quite a bit.

Staci Gray 29:39

So you only have 20 investors right now?

29:43

Well, | think | only have 20 serious investors, I've had over 100 people tell me that they're interested, but just reading
people, I'm like, Alright, out of those 120 of them are serious. So I'm somewhere between you know, I've said About
100, | have a large Instagram following, I'm not really piercing them yet, for as as investors, because I'm being very
cautious, because | don't want to end up violating any, you know, sec rules. But currently I'm I'm I'm, you know, under

100, | would say interested parties

Staci Gray 30:22

to raise any capital.

30:25

| have a lot of people that told me that they're going to give me the money, but | have not taken any money yet. |

have not taken the money.

Staci Gray 30:33
Nothing in the bank. Yeah,

30:35

no other money in the bank. No, like they've already said, I've already have verbally $3 million. But | have not taken
the money because I'm still trying to get with with attorney risio. And I've sent a couple of messages in but | haven't
done a call back because we have currently three properties under contract. And | want to start the process for the
syndication paperwork. But | haven't heard back from Mauricio. So I'm trying to kind of get my ducks in a row before
| touch anybody's money.

Russ 31:07

Sure, smart.

Staci Gray 31:08

So there's two sides of it, there's marketing side of it. So when you're managing investors, you will have the front end
funnel, which means your wide net where you're trying to get people on your list, so you can nurture them to fill out
JO

JO

year? Well, we're in a time where nobody's doing any business, the markets crash, it's devastation, everyone's down. |
sent Gary an email. And | said, Gary, if not you who? My people are devastated. Florida's devastated, we're having
our LLC. | need you to call in and talk to my agent Leadership Council. He agreed, so | didn’t tell anybody. And
during lunch, | said, Hey, we're gonna get rings have a special call or call in? About 15 of us. And Gary, Ring ring.
Hello, who's this? | put on speaker. Oh, hey, john. Yeah, it's Gary Keller. Everyone's like, watch. So Gary gives a

Russ 06:54

Can you hear me?

06:55

Yes.

Russ 06:57

Okay, | can't hear you. So Stacy, can you emcee for a minute while | figure out my microphone. Or my speaker, sorry,
technical difficulty.

07:11

So Gary gave, can everyone else hear me? So Gary gave about a 45 minute talk, he had just come out with a book
called shift, which was explaining market cycles and what real estate agents could do. But he called in to this office
took 45 minutes of his time to talk to 15 people to think of if you know who Gary Keller is and the size of his
organization, | just thought that was amazing. He he walks his talk. And since you brought up Gary Keller, there you
go, | just thought I’d share that. | think a lot of us and maybe this is where the tie in is it to what we do, are afraid to
reach out to people, especially if we're starting. And | had a call last week with the senior vice president of Costco,
who's in control of all 808 stores globally. | reached out to him on LinkedIn. And he responded and we jumped on a
phone call for 36 minutes. So you know, there’s a lot team building we're talking about people will help you if you're
not afraid, and you just reach out and ask for advice. That's all.

Russ 08:27

Alright, well, I'm back. Sorry about that. My speaker wire came disconnected from my earpiece. So it was easy to fix
just took me a little while to diagnose it. I'm sure all of that was brilliant. | heard nothing. So I'm going to trust that it
was great. Did anybody have any comments or questions about that? Since | missed it. Okay, then. So, um, then,
Jeremy, I'm gonna Oh, yeah, john, go ahead. Jeremy's like, off the hook.

@) John Graham 09:04

So good afternoon, everybody. I'm brand new. I'm starting note. I've still got all my good stuff to go through. I've been
working through all the resources on the SMC hotline, have all the information there. | wanted to focus on the future
of money and wealth first, because that's material that | hadn't seen. And | wanted to understand that really big
picture. So now I'm getting ready to be laser focused on three or four different areas. And so my question really is is |
