JO

JO

JO

JO

46:27

So are you suggesting maybe like a hybrid? Where be contingency and an hourly? No,

46:35

no, just contingency we're going to Dustin contains not a contingency analysis, if he’s
gonna operate on an hourly basis, that's ours. All right, fine, no contingency. So | don't
care how much it is that is, but the problem you have there is when you work on an hourly
basis, the attorney does not have the incentive to get you the best possible settlement.
Right? Because they could just give me my hours, unless he's gonna give you a different
hourly rate. So let's say this, but ordinarily, | would charge $400 an hour. But the distance
is only tried to $200 an hour. And that becomes the minimum. So variation of the same
thing we were talking about. But | wouldn't pay him to $200 an hour, | would just say fuck,
good, you're gonna get not less than that. If, if the case doesn't pan out, you get X number
of dollars. Or | can take it to another attorney. And you still are protected for your X

number of dollars.

47:46

That's a great idea. Yeah, cuz then that protects him that he's not going to be doing this
for free Hill. And | was thought to come out of pocket if we lose, but then it's incentivized.
But

47:58

that's it. But you come out of pocket If you lose, because the gambling tape but he also
comes out of pocket if he loses too. So he's got to be satisfied that he does there's a profit
to be made by taking the case to settlement or an ultimate the court case? That's fine. Do
the same thing make the take the analogy for an automobile accident? They are what is
the what is the lawyer who takes it over? What does he expect to get? certain minimum
some point? He says, Yeah, I'm gonna get money from an insurance company. How much?
| don't know. But | think | can figure it out, based on my experience in the insurance
company, what, how long do | take it to trial or not? So that the based on the experience
and come up with a decision of how much they would be willing to do get or accepted as
a settlement in this instance, is slightly different. Because it’s not an automobile accident.
You're having an insurance company, you got somebody here that’s done something
wrong. The fact that he hasn't checked the assets. | think that's very important. Nope, no

purpose and getting a judgment that you can't collect. But so that should certainly be
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

better. | got all cash 500,000 I'm not going to sell it to you call me back in a month and
says | accept your offer for 100,000. Okay, she says what offer is well, that's what you told
me you pay us is Yeah, that’s before | knew it was the highest bidder. And now it's not
okay. So | bought it for $186,000 cash, and 200,000 woolridge. Because the mark that was
there was realistic, he tested the market, it didn’t work out. And that's what you have here.
To test the market. You want a firm offer? Here's it, I'm ready to do it. Now. If you're not
going to accept my firm offer, do what you want. And come back talk to me and maybe

we'll talk in the future. But meanwhile, my offer is off the table. Well, we

22:18

did we put an offer letter of intent letter in today. So based on the offer, that wouldn't
make sense, it would be around $7 million. He would hold What do you mean around if
you could hold it in a vet? What did you offer it? Because it's more it because there's

interest on it. So it's higher than 7 million. So it’s 7 million.

22:42

At this point, if you say the letter of intent, what is the letter of intent to say you're going

to buy it for how to walk?

22:49

It's $7 million. And he's going to hold it for 3%. And it's going to be we're going to buy him

out in two years of that mortgage.

22:58
So

23:01

there's different options on it too. For every floor, we get over nine stories, we pay him
$400,000. Okay, so it's not just a $7 million bid.

23:09
JO

JO

42:52

So | had sent over the retainer. Before | submitted this question over to you, basically,
after we discuss this, that's about a $25,000 retainer. And this is after he’s explained that it
would be about 300,000. In

43:07

one way, shape, and sizes. This is a contingency. Does he get a percentage of the
percentage of the of the return? Yes. It says | assume now it says okay, I'll take 30% or
20%, whatever the number is that you agree upon of the ultimate settlement. Alright,
that's a doable contingency agreement, but also his physical expenses, which I'm saying
what the fees he has to pay to the court and the actual cash expenses, you have to pay.
That's typical. But beyond that, he goes, goes and does what it is and gets a certain
percentage of the operation out of the whatever they the profits. So he’s got a direct
incentive to get more in more money, get a better settlement, right, which is difficult. In a
lot of transactions. If you cannot, you're in an automobile accident. They take it out on a
contingency basis. Most of you don't usually pay so much an hour where you're taking the
basis they are you get a certain percentage 20% 30% whatever the number is of the
ultimate settlement. And they know that confident that confident what the ultimate the
settlement will be within the ranges. Now, however, what you've done here is is you left
yourself open to renegotiation, which is okay. How about saying Fine, I'll give you give you
in any event, you get a minimum. So say, okay, you get the greater goal, you get 20 a
certain percentage of the ultimate settlement, but not less than X dollars. But don't Prior
to hours you know, there's just a ticket or a sideline, right? When once somebody was a
young lawyer was way up, that became very successful, and those that had a heart attack
and died. And a final point up, he’s a great guy, I've just started getting married. And he
complained to St. Peter, who | died. St. Peter's looked into timesheets is according to your
timesheets, your argument wanting. Okay. So this is what happens with timesheets, don't
work, don't do it on an hourly basis. I’m not saying that that’s not something you should
do under other circumstances, but not what you've already worked it out. And this on a
contingency basis, especially on a case like this good. So he has to be satisfied is that
there's, it's worthwhile doing it. Now also, you get a better result, because they've got it on
a contingency, when when the out when the time involved becomes too high, he's going
to have a tendency to try to get it settled earlier. But after that time, he gets nothing. He
does the case gets X number of dollars as a minimum against the desert percentage of

the gross.
JO

JO

property at a higher price.

32:10

George Martin would you What would you seek an amendment to the contract to either
negotiate what contract you don't even want to get back to the original seller visual seller
is going to be mad at you why because now he sold the property to cheap he sold it and
somebody made a profit on the contract. He says sell is the original seller is going to be
very unhappy when | sold him for 7 million and now | somebody else took 500,000 to give
me the contract for 7 million so the property was now seven and a half million so the
original seller is not going to be happy because he got sold is the middleman the contract
the one that took the contract is this now as a position in the auto loan the original owner
is not gonna be happy with that at all. Why because you got she sold it too cheap. So |
wouldn't say get an amendment to this you kick the contract as you can amend it later on.
Why negotiating directly with the with the present owner and say circumstances have
changed. | want a longer period of time or whatever it is you can do that but not initially.
As far as you're concerned for the original seller, you are an interloper he didn't send for
you and he's not gonna happy because somebody is making money on a product he sells
so that's the atmosphere and I'm not saying don't do it for me to do done it to dozens of
occasions. done it the other way. | flipped contracts. | flipped and flipped the contract at
that point where the we had a closing date. And we intended to drop the deposit. We
were not closing because we didn't like the property anymore. All right, but | got
somebody else now who came in at this point says I'll buy that contract which is good but
put up the money. put up the money now put into closing give me a letter of rec could be
a letter of bank letter is Oh, anything is now but how to be done quickly because we're
going to drop the property. And all of a sudden somebody comes to us | pay you half a
million more for the properties. It’s good. Fine. Little did he know No, I'm not I'm waiting. If
you waited another 11 months or two months at that point, he would have got the
property and my 500,000 was lost. Gotta give me back my original deposit plus a profit.

Not it’s not. It's not unusual. Okay, very good. Let's go to Purdue. Hi, George,

35:19

pleasure to be here. Me and my two partners, Chris and Gord, from Hamilton, we have a
question to get your perspective and advice on the question. The question is, we're
working on some larger projects homerun in the baseball analogy, and recently have
come across a stream of smaller land development projects. For smaller state large
subdivisions is singles as we see it. These small projects have lower risk and some and

seem easier to execute for us. big projects are more rewarding, but they take longer often
JO

have delay compensation, and have more risks associated with them. So when designing
balance into your business, how did you decide the balance of home run projects? versus
based singles? Well, how big is your appetite? How about your what your bank account?

We're starting off? So I'm not I'm just

36:16

not | wasn't watching quite the answer. But I'm saying I'm getting into questions. So you're
not saying how much money? Are you ready to invest? And how much are you willing to
lose? So now, every time you do not every time | my suggestion has always been for real
estate is that you have a basket of properties. Some have long term, some have short
term, some are easy, some are hard, somehow are high risk, some are less risky, and you
manage it with a diversification. Where do you want to put your money? That depends on
how much money you've got to put the advantages, small house small, proper school
projects is the easy to control, they take usually a shorter period of time, but they're not as
rewarding. As a big project, we have developed it. But now when you have a big project,
there's more time involved. There’s more money involved. And you have an added factor.
There's a time element, which you don't have you don't control that time element. If you
need zoning or something else, or you need a marketplace, it depends on what's going on
in the city. Talk it's, | can't give you an answer. question is how much money are we talking
about how much you willing to lose? Now give him a perfect example. Absolutely true.
Trump will build this beautiful building in Chicago. All right. condominiums, high rise
condominiums, that point he had, every condo was sold. The 10 put it the purchase,
persons have put up 20% as a deposit. Alright, but of course, the building had to be built.
Three years later, when when the building was built, the market is your cargo tank, and
everybody dropped the 20% deposit. You couldn't sell the units for 80% of what the value
was. Tonight, you had to go back and figure out what you're refinancing and basically
talked to the lender and said, Look, lender | can't deliver. What do you want to do you
want to take the property? Here it is. Or you want to leave it with me to sell it, but the
brightening up the price is going to be entirely different. But the problem was that
circumstances changed in that three year period. That's what you have with a bait with a
big development depending upon what the timeframe is. But you hit more home runs that
way too. What happens if the market goes up? Great ship. That's true. Tobacco but what
advice suggestion is to have diversification and don't bet the ranch the ranch on any one
project. But you have to decide how you want to mix it. Now | | generally find that is that
you you develop it yourself. Do you have the small projects and say, Well, maybe I'll go
into something a little bigger. I'm going to something a little bigger. And as long as you
had the money behind it to so that you can afford to take the risk of going bigger. That's
fine. Fine, don't be afraid. If you lose, you lose. If you don't take a chance. What do you

What? Don't be realistic? That's so true. Thank you, George. Welcome. But and balancing
JO

JO

JO

Well, certainly your area of Long Island is very sought after area, it's close to some great

amenities, you're close to the airport. But that’s

12:02

true. But that let me tell you one thing, | think is important, the closer you are to your
major city, so that if you if in fact take Hamilton, for example. great spot to be how long is
it to go to where you want to go? Not at all? Yeah, no, if you stretch that out, and you say,
wait a minute, now it’s an hour and a half, two hours, that’s a whole different world, you're
not a suburb anymore. You're a different city. So now, I'm finding a far as long as if you if
you're with one within an hour of Manhattan, the land is defeated. The land is very much
in demand was in and out no less in and out yet. But there isn't that much less than now.
So you know, it’s a you go into two areas of Long Island, which the numbers are
staggering.

13:04

Yeah, | think part of the variability of course, in the New York area is it could be 30

minutes, one day and an hour and a half the next

13:12

drill, but people were three guys that live with it. | lived with it for years, | traded it for 2025
30 is defined. commuted every day on the Long Island Railroad. | hated the railroad, but it
was it got me where | wanted to go. Yeah. And it was striking it broke down or what have
you. Meanwhile, on the average day, it took me 45 minutes, and | was home. And you can
learn to live with it. Right? And | think what's what's happening that this is going to have
less people driving cars. So Mass Transportation becomes important. But this is all just this
is the background for where you want to invest and what you want to invest in and how
much money you want to throw into a particular market or particular project. A lot of
variables. Yes, indeed. And my motto has always been don't bet the ranch on any project
diversify. And if something one area goes bad, so be one area goes great, that's fine. Will
it always be that way? No. Doesn't. You know, the beauty of real estate is there's a lot of
money to be made. If you're if you know what you're doing and you made a reasonable
amount of investigation is also more money has been lost in real estate than in any other
area. Because people don't know what they're doing. And they all think well, it's going to
be great. Rather this will be forever. Yeah. Look into here in Rockefeller Center when the
Japanese bought Rockefeller Center at that point, they figured well, the rent is $25 a
square foot it'll go to 50 yen one to 15 But they bought it at that price it looked look like a
JO

JO

JO

JO

But the development hired backpack off the back off from him. | always say it’s worth 3
million for the best best day ever. What do you mean? What's the return? What's your
return on capital? If you put in $3 million? How much do you make? Take the cap rates
around four and a half percent cap rate. So I'm not saying at this point. It is something
figure if if there's a certain amount of income from this property, right. Now, if you're
saying $3 million dollars, this is how much income does not the cap rate as the actual
return? You understand what I'm saying? Yeah, that's it? Is it worth the return? Is the air is
the rents going up? Or they're going down? Is this a good? A good usage of this property
or other other users use? Is it good? Is it in an area which is booming? Or an area which is

out? Your How long are you planning on keeping?

17:34

Yeah, so um, so basically, the answer your question is rented for pretty good rate right
now and supply for commercial is, is definitely going up because of COVID. So it’s not
that's not the play. I'd love to ask you about the development project. So okay, basically,
we're not going to hold it for long. It's going to hold on the cash flow from the businesses
will pay that for the vendor take back.

18:03

Oh, yeah. Let me see if | can we can short circuit in the Senate for the benefit of time.
What you're saying is good right now. It’s got it's been called, but later on, I'm going to
change and do something different and get a difference basis of income. I'm not going to

keep it as commercial. Am | right?

18:21

That's right. I'm going to develop it. Right now. It's zoned for nine storeys high and we
think we might go high that we're talking residential, right. Are we talking business? Well,
yeah, we're gonna turn into a rental building. Yeah. Fully rented. No, no, we're breaking
into home. Is this commercial or residential? No commercial on it. It’s residential with no

commercial saying

18:45

fine. So garbage. It's a residential building and going to, to basically nine storey so I'm

going to take this piece of land and I'm going to build a nine storey building on it. Am |
JO

JO

JO

JO

time you buy it to the time what are you going to do with it? Are you going to sell it in a
year? Are you going to sell it in five years? Are you going to wait for it to grow up? Are you
going to remain to maintain the property and keep it as a long term investment? Okay,
what is it and figure out what that lifecycle is and figure out what the what you anticipate
is going to happen from the time you started to the time you end that lifecycle and
tracking. track what's going on. See if your expenses are higher or see if the if the market

is is different over the period and what happens if it goes bad top it

09:59

could be is not going to work the way you have you think you've got enough money for
you that you're going to be out in two years, put the put aside enough money for three
and a half. So you can ride this cycle, if you can, I'll ride the cycle, whatever it may be, then
you're going to be fine. Because your real estate is going to go up in value it has through,
there's just not more there.

10:27

Yeah, | mean, certainly in areas that are geographically constrained, as long as there's

that influx of population and jobs, there's always going to be that upward pressure.

10:36

True, but | do feel what | feel strongly about one point of which is recent. What's going on,
and that's it, | think the value of the suburb area is going to far outweigh the value of city
areas. | think you're going to see a transition from people working in the city, to working at
home. Yeah. And also, they don't want a lot of problems with the city with protests and
everything else is going on. And it's going on in the world with certain situations where
there's there's a lack of stability in the city, that | think they're gonna say, yeah, I'm gonna,
I'm gonna go to I've seen changes in my area, cuz I'm only aware of my area. I'm not a
buyer, | think well, you know that I'm too old for that. But | can see now, | mean, all of a
sudden, | got houses, their houses on the market. And the prices are already 1000s more
than they were a few months ago. And the brokers which it is a way, you know what | put
it on the market. Now all of a sudden, | got five bidders, and they're bidding over the over

the asking price.

11:54
JO

JO

you got with the municipality. You'd be surprised that that boy with a blue forgot our
politicians got dragged with it, what you can accomplish getting a variance because

you've you handle it properly. You've got enough people in your corner.

59:20

Okay, fascinating. | appreciate the perspective was not something I'd considered. So

thank you

59:24

know, the guy he's not doing he's under no obligation to, to say to indicate that directly to
a potential buyer, you have a defect. Now the buyers got to figure that out or the buyer's
lawyer sees it as a buildable buildable site. In more, more likely, you're not going to
they're going to assume it’s buildable. | don’t think they've gone into the same detail.
Would you gone to build a house or build this house back. You can't build it the way that it
was? Because there's only has changed now, but can you keep the existing footprint
probably? Because it was there before and that means grandfathered in. Right? Alright,
but the question is when expanded, but you may have to change it. Who is | used you
violated a lot lines as the The house has been there now it violates a lot lines under
existing zoning. If you tear it down, you got to go under the new zoning. However, if you
just went on a footprint, you probably wouldn't because this The town is not going to be
that unhappy with and say well, what's there is okay, it's there already. So if we violate the
new zonings so big but | by all means see, you're entitled to a reduction in the property in
the course price going back and saying look, right now you got this house cannot be
rebuilt under the existing zoning and telling that to the broker or telling it to the to the

seller. So therefore the price ought to be less
JO

JO

going to last. | know one thing, real estate over a period of time is going to be worth more
than it was when you started. Because it has it will go up there's only so much land in the
building. And it somehow fluctuates depending upon what the economy what the
economy is, and what the inflationary is inflation at this point, because you got to pay
more for gasoline, you got to pay more for this. So people pay more for houses. And they
usually make more. Either they get it in the income, they have all the businesses so that |
tried higher prices, and that's the whole cycle of the economy. So there's no there's no
guarantees, by any means. But | do feel that there's always going to be a need for
housing. In in many areas, it’s the size of the housing, that could vary. It depends on how
loose loose money is. But | think one of the key factors and the banks, the bank right now
are loaded with money loaded? You don't think so at this point via CD pays 1.3% 1.3%. By
buying a bond, go buy a go buy a 10 year bond, spend 3% 10 years 3% What does it show
that means that they've got no place to put their money. And they're not that keen on on
making loans or the loans are not there. And the truth is that most of the developers have
the ability to get to get the money because banks want to put it out if they if they trust the
developer. Right? So if you have some kind of a track record or you know what you're
doing, you can usually convince the bank says yeah, I'll go along with you. So it’s a you
know, there's no, there's no magic to Mark | always was of going concern that the time to
buy is when the time when people are looking to sell that's the time that you can do it. If
you have the courage and convictions and you're not waiting to waiting too long. You say
well, I'll wait for the market to go down. When the what what what are you talking about?
More? What are you what what the same? What you're not the whole market? Are you
what what product are you producing? And how much does it cost? How long does it take
you to put it on the market. If you're building a major project that takes three years, you
got to say what you hope that everything is okay in three years, well, better than it is now.
If you're building something now that's good. You can finish it in a month in a year or six
months. The risk becomes less, but also the reward becomes less. So there's no, there's no
magic formula.

05:09

If | think back to some of the market cycles, and | know you've gone through many of

them, | think my point, you told me that you've gone through at least five or six.

05:17

Let's put it this way, the market cyclists who have gone through it, | have been involved in
not personally but with clients, where they paid the highest price for a piece of property,
the highest price, you can find, when Trump or Trump did the build the land and the Trump
JO

JO

| understand. So you say fine, if you can give you can go to nine stores at that point, he
gets a piece of the upside. Okay, that's fine. Yeah, you can do that. But yeah, | think it

works out like, yeah,

23:24

| think you answered the question, we figured out how much we're willing to pay for it at

the most to take it off the market to make sure he doesn't

23:34

take it off the market, there's only one way to take it off the market, you sign a written
contract, and you put up dollars. That that's that takes you off the market for the period
of time in the contract, you have six months, two months, whatever it is, but right then
you're not | got to put up a deposit, usually 10% of the price or whatever it is that you're
going to agree to. And then you tie it up for that period of time. Now you can also build in
an extension. Say that, that is if | don’t buy it in six months, | give me another option for six
months, I'll put up some of the money. Go longer. You can wait until so to say fine. If | go
I'm planning on going for zoning and go through instead of a nine stories. I'm going to tell
stories and we'll make more money. So if that happens, you ride with me you get you. You
should because you're going to get more money. You should give me the time because I'm
going to You're my partner, you're going to get more money for your property if | can go
higher. Well built into a contract. Once is built into the contract you find you have a
downside. The downside is it doesn’t work out the way it is and you take you back out.
Now the beauty of backing out is if you don't think it works, the chances are no Nobody
else does either. So the market has changed. So many times at that point I've gotten
involved or a client, we have a contract. | say, I'm sorry, fellas, keep the deposit. If you
want me, I'll only buy for X dollars less. And if that's a fact, they don't want to go back into
the marketplace and find out now, they previously thought they had your dollars. And
now they find out they don't have it. They got less dollars. That's great. Thanks, rich. Yep,
got it. Yeah. Lots of ways, lots of ways to do it. But the key is, you must forget the letters of
intent, or the letters of intent, they’re fine. At this To start off, but not as the negotiating
point, you can start to say this is this is the letter of intent. But unless both parties agreed
to the letter of intent, it's relatively meaningless. And that doesn't mean to have to sign
and make it binding, it could be a non binding letter of intent. All right now, but who drafts
whether draft a letter of intent controls the transaction? Because the one who drafted
knows what is what's in it, not what's not in it. So if you want to submit a letter of intent to
have your attorney submit a letter of intent, that's fine. Put everything you want. And this

is it. This is everything that you want. And it's not binding. And then you use that to get to
JO

JO

go for a car, it’s good to be used as a basis for a legal contract. That's great. But you're
always going to be faced with the following situation. And not only in a hot market is
always the situation where somebody comes up, and they have a straw man, there's
always somebody | got five more buyers, or | got it's a hot market angle, if essentially, why
are they talking to you. At some point, they got to decide to buy note five, and you just
call the Bluff, I'm ready to sign a contract for $7 million, and give you a deposit of 10% or
500,000. Or good pick a number at that, which gives me the right to do what to buy it in
six months or a year, whatever, whatever you can agree to. If you want it here it is if you
don't want to do it, you go into the marketplace, but but my offer is not available later on.
If you come back to me, this is not the price. Because that only means that you couldn't
sell it to somebody else. higher price. Okay, we under you understand what I'm going

what I'm driving it. Yeah, that's really helpful. Thank you so much. Great.

27:58

Okay, next, | think we've got a few questions along a similar theme tonight. So we're
dealing with a situation right now where we offered on a development property, it's a 28
acre parcel. And we ended up losing in a bidding war. And we're eight offers on the
property. And after losing, we met with the winning bidder, ask them what it was they saw
on the property that we didn't. And they were clearly more aggressive. They saw more
aggressive density, calculation for that parcel. So we ended up saying, All right, we
understand where you're coming from, would you be willing to sell the contract to us, so
we not only paid the higher price, we also paid a premium on top of that for their trouble
to purchase that contract. Now in due diligence, with the Planning Commission. It’s clear
there's some variability, we're not it might be possible to achieve the density that that was
represented, but there's clearly some risk on it. And | don’t think we're going to get to the
answer before the end of that due diligence, contingency period. And so | feel like we
need to go back to the person we bought the contract from, and do some kind of
renegotiation to better share that risk. Given that there were a bitters, he’s probably going
to say, Well, fine, I'll just sell it to somebody else. We can have agreement to sell it to you
does

29:27

go How can you sell it to somebody else? Only if we back out of it. You back out and you
give them whatever it is you paid for the contract, right? Yes. Yes, that's true. That does it.
But understand there's a factor here you have to take into consideration if you decide to

back out of the contract. This puts a tremendous doubt in his mind.
Ollee

April 2021 - Mastermind with George Ross

we Thu, 9/93:12PM = @ 1:01:21

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

property, contract, point, pay, buy, contingency, built, market, area, settlement, money, question,

land, lose, sell, attorney, fine, people, dollars, deposit

JO

JO

00:08

Okay, welcome everyone. We have a few more people joining here over the next couple
minutes. Welcome, George. Hi. How are you? doing? Well yourself? Great. Can't complain.
Everything's, everything's looking up. You've had both your vaccines? Yeah. Long ago? No,
we have no reaction. Good for you gave me water. But that's fine. Well, George, maybe
let's start tonight with just to talk a little bit about market cycles. And you've gone through
numerous market cycles. And when you're in that hot part of the market, it feels amazing.
And yet everybody has this sinking feeling that at some point, it's going to end but
nobody's quite sure what the stimulus will be, what is the precipitating event that’s going
to cause the market conditions to change? You know, you think back 2007 it was a seller's
market, everything was selling over asking price. We're back in those conditions again
today. And of course, you have the benefit of hindsight of seeing what it was the cause of
the calamity in the case of 2007. But they've been other market cycles as well. What are
the signs to look for? And are we even seeing them yet? Because right now, what were the

market conditions we're seeing? There's no end in sight?

01:27

True, true side you have looked for basically is what the economy is doing in the area,
which you're looking on buying the property or building properly? It is, what is what's the
growth factor of the product business? Our business is going out of leaving the area or the
coming into the area, how much stimulus is that? It’s furnished by the government. And it's
all those factors to take take into consideration the day, but there’s no guarantees, there's
no, no, nothing. | said, Yeah, this is going to go up and this is going to go down, the market

will run in cycles, it always will run in cycles. And you can't predict how long this cycle is
JO

JO

also where do you get your money? How do you have investors you have syndicators and
when did you get your money? Can you have banks that will back you sure your source of
funds and what you do with it is something You have to figure out to watch your view your
career in real estate. And it changes. Okay. Good. Thank you. You're welcome. Okay, let's
go to SAP.

40:21

A Victor. Hey, George, can you guys hear me? Okay? Yes. Great, fine, perfect, apologize.
Background problem is timeship. There’s always problems. If it gets noisy, | have some
construction background. So | apologize. So | have retained an attorney to sue a previous
management company that you've been helping me out with for the last two years,
calculated damages are about 1.7 million, excluding punitive damages. The attorney that
my attorney originally was open to working on contingency. Before | had that, that $1.7
million figure calculated. And after | gave him that number, he he had a change of
thought, | think he was expecting it to be higher. So he said he's he's unable to work on
contingency because it's a smaller amount for his firm. He he did say he’s still willing to
take on the case. He believes it's a good case. But it’s kind of like asking, | feel like it’s
asking like a used car salesman. Well, should | buy the car? Right? They have an incentive
to say, yes, you should. So | want to get your opinion on it. | asked the attorney Well, what
would the estimated fees be if we go all the way to trial, he said it would be around
$300,000. But he thinks likely the one to settle before then. | don't think the attorney has
run a detailed asset search on the defendant, my property manager. But | know that there
as an investor that property manager has, has a lot to lose if we go after him. This
attorney I've worked with him on three previous matters, he settled all three of them
quickly, inexpensively. And he's a pitbull, if you were in my shoes, would you still work with
him? Even if it was on hourly? Or would you find another attorney to to work on

contingency? Okay,

42:11

good clicker. Good questions. Really good questions. First thing is at this, | wouldn't | go if
you had him on a contingency basis to go to an hourly rate ridiculous. You're going to get
hooked on the hourly rate. Because now at this point, he’s not interested in profit, he’s just
interested in getting what he can think what he thinks is worth the time and effort that
you're putting into it. So it can’t change the horse in midstream. The concept is entirely

different. However, when you hire a retainer, don't you have an agreement signed?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

great deal.

Tail2

Back at the time when everyone was worried that Japan was going to take over America,
absolutely. Yep. Okay. Well, there we have it. Let's go to some of our member questions

here. Let's start with Michael. Okay. Awesome. Can you hear me? Yes.

15:38

Perfect. So thanks so much, George, my question for you today is, so we're basically
negotiating to purchase a property and the development value is much higher than the as

is value. And we're gonna hold on,

13:59

hold on, you said the development value is higher than the average practises value. That's
every piece of real estate if it’s Yeah. It's got to be higher than you guys. Israel, you

otherwise you leave it as is. The question?

16:10

Yeah, it's just based on the cap rates of what's generating right now. It's it's a garage and

a sushi place. So yeah.

16:18

We're talking a different situation. So now, okay, go right here. | assume you're paying
rent.

16:25

Yeah, they're paying rent and the as is value based on the cap rates pretty low. It's worth,

let's say, three, 3 million, 4 million at the most on the best day ever.

16:37
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

29:54

That is worth more because if it’s worth more, why are you backing out?

30:01

So there's an incentive on his part to keep you in the contract and maybe you say we'll go
for another six months or is to check out the zoning or you make some type of variation
Okay, this is not it’s not unusual I've seen this a lot not a lot I've seen it on several several
occasions where effectively up we bought it bought a contract from somebody who did
this

30:33

and contract and of course that that intermediate party doesn't really have any any real
ownership

30:48

right? Nothing Apple owns a contract Yeah. Yeah, he sold you a contract sold your
contract and got a premium for selling you to contract if you don't go back if you don't

close at this point he keeps whatever you paid him along the way.

31:09

From a negotiating standpoint what do you if you were approaching a negotiation with
someone who was that middleman? What leverage would you be looking for as part of

that negotiation?

31:23

| know there's not leverage is the fact that he’s got he’s got a guaranteed premium he's
got a guaranteed dollars somewhere along the line you now we're going to assign you the
assigned to you the contract and gets X dollars somewhere along the way you can get X
dollars when he signs the contract or X dollars when you close the transaction or a
combination of both but what is really no sold your contract Yep. Avoid he’s expected to
get paid now | can't get paid one one shot you can get paid the day the day signs you the

contract says good now it's your risk. that's doable in a while you did you bought the
JO

JO

JO

Die)

right? Is that what we're talking about? That's right. Okay. Go. Yeah.

19:02

Okay, so the question is, we’re pretty much the guy agreed to sell it for $6 million when we
met him. And then when he talked to his friends, he basically said, they told me I'm an
idiot right now based on the market to sell for six, even though | agreed | want more, and
he's threatening to put it on the public market right now. Okay. Um, and we're having the
numbers make sense right now for about, you know, six to $7 million. Based on on on the
nine storey building, we might be able to get more, but we're just trying to we're
wondering, how do we how would you recommend we negotiate within the keep the

property off the market because

19:52

Okay, that's it's good to keep the property off the market. You'll need one thing money.
You put up some money and keep the property off tomorrow. You can buy buttons to
contract, put up a deposit, and you're going to buy it at a certain price. And if you don't

buy it at that price within the timeframe that you had the contract, you lose the deposit.
That's how you tie it up. It's as simple as that the fact that he's really crazy where he thinks
it's higher, you now say good at what you do. Is he ready to sign a contract for a certain

amount? The answer that yes was

20:28

| don’t know. And that's why we should put it on the market. They party. He said, | don’t
know how much it’s worth.

20:38

Worth was fine, then you the way look backwards, you get back in and say good when you
know how much it’s worth go back and talk to me. Right now I'm ready to buy it for real
for $6 million. Pay it right now, if you want to contract with 6 million, right? If you want to
go out into the marketplace. Good. Talk to me when you finally get the highest bidder, but
it's probably less than 600 then I'm offering otherwise you really be taking my offer. You
want to gamble fine. And this has happened? Interesting. No, this has happened. | bought
a radio station a radio station that | offered 500 times the guy wanted 500,000 all cash
for a radio station. And | offered him for 100 days and Okay. All right. He said no, | got
JO

JO

top, everybody thought he was crazy. He says this is the best piece of real estate. And he
was right and the price went up. So when you could rent a store, therefore, for 300 $300 a
square foot, and when he went after it was built, it was 3000 square foot because of the
area. So the key, you know, this The old saying location, location, location, yeah, that's it.
If the location is good, then it's going to cost you more, but it probably has a greater
chance of increased. If location is bad, you got I've got to adjust the price accordingly. But
also areas can change. So you have to be aware of what's going on in the area. Is this
area under built and now going to be built more built up? That's one thing if it's over built,

that's a different story to show. It's it's, you can’t there’s no magic formula.

06:39

Yeah, | mean, we're all trying to play amateur economist here and figure out what the
future is going to get and how it's going to unfold. There are demographic shifts, you
know, the birth rate is not what it needs to be to sustain the population. We saw, for
example, in Japan, when the population peaked in the 90s. That | mean, today, there's 11
million vacant properties in Japan, you know, property values have fallen, we're seeing
that in parts of western Europe. And the only thing to offset that is immigration. So that's
the wildcard immigration and migration. So it’s very hard to very hard to project forward

in time. least not not too far forward in time.

07:24

Yeah, but it depends on where you're going to build. And | what | find very objectionable,
as far as I'm concerned, is that people that are involved in real estate transactions have a
tendency to they believe what somebody writes. So they say the market is going down.
What does that mean? What markets going down one family houses in a particular block
in a particular area? Or is it the general feeling that there's going to people are the less
investments, less building permits are certainly an indication of what's going What's going
on? But that's, it’s, it's got nothing to do with reality. This is somebody's idea. | mean, | got
the for example, | saw the latest one that the average price of a house in Dallas, Texas,
the mean is $1,200,000. Why? For what 20? store? What is what is it? house with 10?
rooms, five rooms, four rooms? Is it in the main part of it is it has how much land does

have it? It's a meaningless statistic. But you look people look at it, and they believe what
they read. So they believe Yes, the market is going down, housing is going down, prices are
going up. And it's it’s a word that you couldn't guarantee what was being written, you
have to be more concerned with what project? Are you planning on building? What are
you planning on build? How does it How does it fit into your package? And do you have an

exit strategy? That's the key. Every real estate transaction has a life. It has a life from the
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

lawyers always work. They say good. | don't want to be in your business. You are hired, I'll
do a legal services. Will you drop? That is you pay me a certain certain amount for each
hour. What was the hourly rate he was talking about? You know,

5a: 12

not off top my head. | think it was around like 350 400 an hour.

53:26

And for him or associates or whatever it is. It's it's a whole different ballgame. It's a whole
different ballgame when you start talking hourly rate as a good Tintin’s. Right. So if you
talk continuously, yes, but a minimum of text X dollars. Would you would get out of the
settlement. Louise, that's fine. So you say are you going to get this job if in fact, | built up a
retainer, which you have is a guarantee that you'll get at least 300,000 to less like |
needed 200,000. All right, now you get to set a limit of 400,000 he gets the first 200 times.
Okay, and then you share them the next 200

54:17

Oh, they have it in tears. You're saying? Yeah. Okay.

54:21

Yeah. Haven't you haven't tears? Yeah. But not, not don't pay him the money upfront. | pay
for his expenses. Yes. | wouldn't be good, whatever the actual court expenses, court fees
and everything else is what he has to pay out for examinations. He has the stenographer
reviews, all of that stuff. Yes. That comes off, it comes off the top and you agree to agree
to pay. But beyond that, it’s you're sharing the percentage and that's, that’s that's not
really it’s not unusual. It's appropriate. Okay, excellent. Thank you so much. You're
welcome. Good luck. Thank you and don't get what as far as punitive damages are
concerned, stay away from that. Why am | say stay away from that? Put very little
emphasis on punitive damages? They don't get punitive damages from a court. You'll get
punitive damages for voluntary settlement. | didn't know that. Well.

90:43

Oh, just that last statement along with gold. Yeah. They don't
JO

JO

JO

90:49

agree to settle this. What | settle for course, once said | did something wrong. No, that's
the point. That's what the judge says, or you have to prove it before or a jury? If you have
a jury case, of course. And that has that's happened. And, you know, in many, many, many

times, you never know how jury is going to come out. Yeah.

56:14

Alright, let's see if we can squeeze in one more question. Sure. So this one is actually for
leaving on my personal property, we bought about an acre of land on the waterfront. And
the neighbor next door is a derelict house, it's going to be appearing on the market, it's an
estate sale. And the property itself is too small, with current zoning rules to rebuild the
current derelict house. So theoretically, you could rebuild something smaller. Well, the
issue is there isn’t sufficient land to put a well and septic on the on that property. Now, if |
cut, if | re cut the property along with some of my property, | can enlarge it and make it a
viable property. But meanwhile, something could be built on that piece of property. Except
there's you wouldn't have access to well and septic. So what do you do? You can't even
attempt? Yeah, right. So that's, that’s the issue. And so the value that’s being attached by
the real estate agent is suggesting is kind of ignoring all of that. And we're going back to
the agent saying, well, you have a real issue, this is not a viable property. And as an agent,

you have a duty to disclose that major defect. No, we're not

57:28

gonna do these roses this point, you could anybody can buy a piece of land as it sits, it’s
not a defect and still land. You can do something with it, make a parking lot out of it, |
don't care. But it has value, not add value for house sizes you want to build or whatever,
but what's the matter was getting variances. What's the matter? At that point, we do get
to go to go back to the city and you say, yo, whoever it is, | | want to have less of a
setback, less of a love line. Whatever the difference is, | don't know what the difference is,
but what would what would you need to make it a buildable plot 10 feet, probably about
30 Well, it's | understand but there there is a momentum for a city or a municipality to
give you up, they don't like regular land, right? They would prefer you build it because you
get taxes when something is built, you don't get that amount of taxes on vacant land. So if
you ask for something reasonable, you probably get it 10 feet 20 feet of water or you
redesign whatever the house is going to be. So instead of invading the site, the lock lines
by 10 feet or 20 feet all invaded by six feet or eight feet but you can say the land is not

buildable, it's buildable in some form. You don't know what it is. Okay. And how much drag
JO

JO

done. jave the management company has to have some assets. Is it also a management
company probably has insurance against malpractice? Right? Okay. Did you know that
because what happens at this point, if it gets too expensive, the insurance company is
going to pony up to you and say here, take the datas money and go had situations where
the | believe the liability was far in excess of the policy. An insurance company says hey,
I'm not gonna I'm not paying any expenses. But yeah, if you want to proceed Forget, I'm
not going to pay the first million dollars. So if you win, you win, | don't pay 2 million, but
you're gambling, you're losing the million. You're losing my object, my initial obligation, |
was willing to get out and get paid a million, you don't want to be you don't want
accepted. That's your problem. So | would think that there is probably some type of
protection of a major management company of that practice. And therefore, whatever
that is, and that you can certainly he can certainly find out, when he goes through, if he
starts the action and goes through examination before trial and get that information. Do
you have insurance, what insurance how to copy the policy, then he knows that if | win,
this is | can at least get this amount. And that's helpful. And that’s also helpful for you.
Right? Because now he can least get that amount, you take a fee, he gets 20% 30 is
whatever the number you agree upon, and the rest is yours. Did we answer your

questions?

51:20

Yeah, that's that was gold. If | can add just one more follow up to it. So the position I'm in
now is he's already explained that he didn't want to do the contingency, we discuss the
hourly. And I've signed the contract with the Ireland. I've submitted that first retainer. If so,
any any suggestion because it's basically I'm gonna be retreating with with my attorney,

how do | say face?

91:44

Say face say, Okay, yeah, | understand what it is goodwill, | will guarantee you that your
minimum That's it, no matter what comes out of it, and on the cases that but when loser
draw, you get X dollars. Okay. Yeah, but not, we're not talking 300 grand. So you got to
gamble. You get Phil, he knows now, if he loses, he still gets what you agreed to pay. If he
wins, he gets at least that amount. Right to get that amount off the top and then 30% of
the whatever's left over whatever the number is. Yeah. But and what I'm a little concerned
about, is he if he’s really good, or he or she whoever is really good. They should know what
how, what what the cases really worth. And have a pretty good idea, but it should have
been. This is something you should have done initially. Okay. But don't Don't go Don't go

on an hourly basis. Now not with this lawyer. Not with is not missing. Yeah, there are the
