©) Craig Kamman_ 30:35

JO

yes. Okay. So so you're dealing with the party, you know, | mean, that this is, this is how | was raised right? by an
engineer, my brother's an architect. And if we needed an open heart surgery would do it ourselves, right? | mean, this
is they're, they're just going to try to do it themselves, they probably won't. They're, they're really asking how they're,
they just want to be educated. So | would kind of follow what Russ is talking about, and start probing. But | think
they're just looking for education. And they probably after they see what you're talking about, they probably won't go
that direction. And they obviously trust you. So | think you got a viable client there.

31:18

Great feedback. And | agree, | think what was lacking was the, the sales component, pulling out what their fears are,
what their goals are, what they want, what they want to avoid, and | was just talking about the benefits from
investing, you know, with me, but | think they kind of took that as terms of, well, if | just go find another property, we

can get the same experience. So yeah, if

Russ 31:43

you remember, in the sales training, we do the push me pull you from Dr. Doolittle way back, it’s basically a two
headed Ilama, you know, where there's no rear end, there's just two front ends, right, animals got to head on both
sides. And the point is, is that, you know, there's greed and fear. And so they're gravitating towards something they
want, or they're running away from a pain they don't want. And if you can work both sides of the emotional
spectrum, you have greater control over the situation. And again, you should never manipulate, you should only be
drawing out the raw material they give you because all you're doing is taking them into a future experience that they
haven't experienced yet. So they can really think through what it is gonna be like to do this. And there you know it,
the thing is, because you're an engineer by trade, and you're kind of right, left brain by trade, you know, you have to
really force yourself to really think about the emotional side, you know, motives at the beginning, setting the table is
establishing the motives or the emotions, what is what is your greed or fear that you're dealing with, so that they
have proper context. And then once they trust that your motives are pure, or at least plausible, then you get into
them and what they want and why which is motives. And the Y is going to be one of two things, they're either
gravitating towards something they want, or they're running away from something that you know that they don't
want, and you want to work both sides of it. And once you have those things, then you just apply those to the
features and benefits of you know, whatever, whatever scenario you're talking about, those are the pros and cons, the
things that are going to be good the things you're going to be bad and you always reminding him that no
investments perfect, no scenario is going to answer. Check every box, | mean, very few. So the reality is, is you're
going to trade something for something else, you do it yourself, you're going to put in time, you're gonna have a lot of
responsibility, your phone will ring in the middle of the night, you may make a little extra money, you may decide
that it's worth it, you may decide it’s not worth it. My experience has been for most small investors, it's not worth it.
For big investors. Yes, it's worth it. Because that phone call, you know, instead of it being you know, you're you're
taking a phone call in the middle of the night to make a $250 decision, you're taking a phone call in the middle of
the night to make a $250,000 decision. And the same amount of time, same interruption to your lifestyle but worth it
because the stakes are higher if you're not playing the game at that level. And it’s like do you really want to? Or do
you want to hire somebody to do that for you, who's doing it for a whole bunch of other people at the same time and
there's economies of scale. | mean, that’s what you have to offer. And I'm talking about you personally because if
you're brand new and you don't have that then you can't tell that story but CEP can't. So part of your story is your
story and it’s uniquely yours. So you have to know what you have to work with even within your own story. So you
know how to pull it out and play those cards when you need to. Okay all right. Anybody else got a question? real life
else on that Jeremy? Okay, your inner circle, so you can call me anytime you need a little extra help. We can give you
the one on one. Okay. Okay, so, let's see. | thought | saw another one in the | know, Sepp said he had another one,
but Jana has one. So Jana, let's do you. Hi, how are you?

@) Janna Hubbs 49:25

I'm great. So | have a question regarding | think it's rebranding on an existing syndication that Randy and | have had
for several years now. As a result of a fire a major fire and rebuilding the property working with insurance. We've
thought about renaming the property, rebranding it, marketing. We've worked with a property manager who is
outstanding and in the sense of getting our residents up to 90% 95 before the fire, we were at about a 95%
occupancy for several years. And since the fire because of the type of units that we have available now most of
those are three large three bedroom, two bath properties and two twos. Were the ones that had the fire were one
ones, one, two ones, that type of thing. So what is the process? or What should we consider? If we decide to rename
it or rebrand it? What are some of the considerations that we need to have? What do we need to do in the sense of
our investors, we're getting ready to put out a, an update to them, as a result of the past couple of weeks, our visit
down there, you know, working with the insurance company, those kinds of things. So what are some of the
considerations that we need to have, in the sense of being really responsible syndicators to our investors, as well as
being able to take this once it's completed, and hopefully, June, July, and we can market it and have it fully
established?

© Russ 51:07

Okay, so. So what we got here is you're giving me a what? And what is the very next thing that I'm going to ask?
Why, why? So before we get into all the reasons why we want to do that, or what we want to do, or how to do it, the
big question is, why do we want to do it? So in other words, what problem are we solving, right? You You, you have an
either instinctively or you've gone through a thought process, which you haven't disclosed, made the strategic
decision, it is necessary to rebrand this property. And there's a why there's a reason for that, what is that reason?

@ Janna Hubbs 51:46

| think because of the history of the property, we have really had to increase our marketing. Because when we
purchased the property several years ago, the previous owner did not maintain it did not do a lot of the deferred
maintenance with the soul, we had vendors that wouldn't come on property, you know, those types of things, we've
had to really go out there and sell to the community to get residents in there and keep them in there. And so and
then with the major fire, where people lost their homes, they lost everything about it with the exception of two
residents who have renter's insurance, things like that, that's one of the the key key pieces for looking at a renaming
of it, and really pushing it out there. We have been marketing, also, and we do have a list of potential new residents.
But again, we thought, you know, what, if we go out and we rebrand it, maybe that will help in the sense of being

able to encourage people to just come in there full, full gamut and, and rent in state.

© Russ 52:57

So when your pipeline, and this is, you know, in any sales, you have to look at your pipeline, you have whatever you're
doing to get lead acquisition, which in this case would be people who express an interest, you've got to get people

who come in who express an interest to actually fill out an application, right? And then from the time they fill out an
application, probably they want to get into the property. | mean, once somebody has filled out an application, you
have effectively sold them and now you're making a decision whether or not you're going to accept them. So are you
saying you're not getting enough applications?

@) Janna Hubbs 53:35

with the, with the existing properties that we have, we are not correct, and

© Russ 53:41

you and so you don't really know what the reason why you're not getting more applications, and you're suspecting
that it's because the property has a reputation in the community maybe being unsafe, maybe being poorly
managed, people had a bad experience and given other options. So you're obviously going to have to put time and
expense into a rebrand. And we'll talk about that in a second. But before you make that investment, this is kind of the
due diligence. Is this, in fact, a wise investment? And so from a marketing perspective, do you have anything other
than your gut? Do you have any? And you know, have you have you? Do you have any stats? Maybe on competitive
properties in terms of the number of applications they're getting? Does your property manager manage other similar
properties? And are they saying hey, we're getting lots of obligations over here, but not very many here? Is there Do
you have any even anecdotal much less statistical information to make it think that you know that, that it’s not a

problem unique to your property, maybe something's going on in the market.

@® Janna Hubbs 54:49

| think it has to do with the fact that most of the properties that we have available or units that we have available
are three twos, large, three twos and people are wanting the smaller ones, which is one of the things that we're going
to have So chances are we're going to have it fully tenanted with the exception of a few, like | said, When before we
had the fire, the the vacancies that we had were the three bedroom, two bath properties. And so that's where it's,
we're kind of torn as far as Do we really need to rebrand it? Or do we just need to say, Hey, this is a great property it's
on. There's three major entrances to it in the sense of avenues and that type of thing. It’s close to shopping.

& Russ 55:36

So I'm going to jump in, because we were near the top of the hour. And | think we have one more question, and |
want to get a chance to kind of finish yours. But the reason I'm asking the question is because a rebranding strategy
would really be around, what message do you need to send to the marketplace? About okay to solve the problem,
right. So if you know that people are not applying, because they consider it to be a poorly managed property, then
you might put it in a new entity and claim new management, you might change the property management
company, right, or do something in those regards. So that you can honestly say, new management, if that's the
problem. Now, if it's been considered to be a property that's been poorly maintained, and you can throw a coat of
paint on it, and put a few plants in and tell everybody, you know, new management, or recently renovated analysis,
and people can see that you're investing in the property, then then that money is going to solve the real problem,
right? If you decide that it's, you know, because you've got the wrong product mix, and everybody wants smaller
units, and you've got bigger units, then you have to decide is there enough demand for this type of property? And
then who is my target avatar? And how do | do a targeted marketing campaign to attract the kind of people and let
them know we've got this kind of product, it’s uniquely suited for young families or, or shared housing three, you
know, if you even wanted those tenants, right, three young people all maybe all living together, right? So but but
again, your rebranding, and all of the messaging surrounding that is going to be have to be very specifically catering
JO

JO

JO

16:26

It does that puts the ball in their court. And | figured that we

Russ 16:30

put the ball in their court, but it puts you in control.

16:33

Right? Yeah, that's that’s awful. Going back to what you said earlier, though, you mentioned? Is there anything like? |
think you said something along the lines of there's no, is there an example? Or is there something | can reference that
video presentation there, there's a presentation but that the example the reason for for, | guess, me being concerned
with them just going and buying all the ingredients for the sandwich themselves. Another investor was using the
exact same property management company and and they had a horror story. And what they were describing was as
if it was a completely different company. So | didn't want to find a way to incorporate that. But in that sales dialogue,
or in the sales conversation, what point would you reference or bring that up without, without it reeking of agenda,
it's like, Hey, | don't want this happened to you guys.

Russ 17:25

Well, | mean, you don't want to name names, and you don't want to throw anybody under the bus that we usually
come back to bite you. But you can describe scenarios, you know, I've seen these situations occur. And these are
some things to look out for. You know, so if you see somebody acting like this, or behaving like that, or you hear
stories like this, or stories like that. And the other thing is, sometimes it's not the vendor, sometimes it's the customer.
So sometimes it's just a mismatch, or sometimes | mean, you know, depending you have to pivot on their
background, if you know something about their background, like when | talked to you, | tried to use maybe
something engineering, you know, the sandwich thing is pretty universal, | try to pick things out that, you know,
everybody can relate to, you know, I've talked many times when | try to explain business relationships, | use romantic
relationships, because almost everybody understands that, even if they don't have much business experience. So you
know, you just want to look for things that they can relate to, if they've ever managed if they've ever hired somebody,
then they know that they can hire somebody or you sports, right, you can look at a player that gets drafted by a
team and just absolutely languishes just as terrible. And you think, Oh, that's a terrible player. And then he gets
traded to another team, and he wins a Super Bowl, and you're like, what the heck, how is that the same guy? Well, he
was a good athlete and a bad system

18:47

for him.

Russ 18:49

So you might have a perfectly good property manager, but you maybe don't know how to work with that particular
person the right way, or vice versa. And so there's just a lot that goes on in building these relationships. And the
challenge for most small operators, | know because this is what | faced when | was small, is you spend so much time

finding, and then developing a relationship with the right person to only do one or two or three properties with them.
a follow up question either of SAP or of me, or have any comment on any of that? Going once, going twice, oh, john,
john Graham, our new member everybody say hi to john from Canada, up there sequestered can't leave the country

without, you know, 18 weeks of in a hazmat facility. Let's see if | can

@) John Graham 24:07

figure out luckily our premier or governor equivalent just got done. How should | say this giving us the opportunity to
stay home for four weeks. So we're tomorrow we enter into another lockdown. So anyway, enough of our problems

up here.

© Russ 24:29

Well, that that is done. So why don't 100 if you watched syndication, mineral club content, 40 hours a week, like a full
time job, you would get about a third of the way through the whole library in four weeks.

@® John Graham 24:41

Well, and | usually watch everything on two times speed so that okay, you can

© Russ 24:46

| don't talk fast enough for you already. Maybe. Okay, so once you're,

® John Graham 24:51

once you learn the cadence of everybody, it works anyway. So my question is, is it sounds to me as though using the
phrase of doodle have, you know, I’ve learned a fair amount that | have to do a lot of due diligence to understand
what's going on, is perhaps something that SAP is able to communicate with this potential person, because | don't
know that they've done their due diligence that they think it's all easy. Am | understanding the approach correctly
that to communicate with somebody that, hey, I'm working extra hard here to make sure that I've done the diligence
on this, to protect you? Is that a good approach to take

© Russ 25:34

us? Well, yeah, | mean, | think that the The point is, is that people, you know, they have ambition, and we have to be
aware of how people go through the process of developing. So Level One is, they're no good, and they don't know it.
And that's why they're sitting there going, Oh, | can do that. That's easy, because that makes it look easy, right? And
then they get out in the real world. And they tried to do and they run into level two, which is like, God, this is hard,
and I'm no good at it. And most people quit right there. If you're well supported, and you're resilient and persistent,
you'll push through and get to level three, which is you actually know how to do the business, do whatever it is you're
trying to do. But it takes a lot of effort, a lot of concentration, you got to constantly review your checklists, and your
manuals and think things through and maybe get coached up a little bit, but you can get the job done. level four is
where you just flow, you just know what you're doing, it comes naturally, it's mastery. And so you can't tell somebody,
Hey, | know you think you're good, but you're gonna suck, right? You can't tell them that because they don't want to

hear that. But you can provoke them through your questioning and your examples of how you describe what you
JO

Hey, you know, and in, here's the people | work with great, happy to see you do it. And if you decide you want to be a
serious syndicator, you know, I'd encourage you to join the program come get trained. You know, and if you run into
trouble, give me a call. So | can laugh in your face and mock you for being. But | mean, you know that way, you're
totally sincere. Now with that said, you know, hopefully you don't get in that situation. Because you know, if you can
back all the way up, I'm taking you from where you're at right now. But your goal is not to get in that situation to
start with. And so that that's really in the beginning of your interview, you know, Mr. bacame, thank you so much for
meeting with me today, | understand you've got some investment objectives. And of course, we have some
investment opportunities, you know, the my mission today is to find out if it’s a match. And in order to do that, you
know, we need to learn a little bit about each other. So I've got some things I'd like to get done in the meeting in
terms of telling you about what we're doing. But | want to do that in context of you know, what you're looking to do.
So we're going to be together for | budgeted 45 minutes, happy to go over, but | want to be respectful of your time.
And in the next 45 minutes, as we have this conversation, if this is an absolute home run, and you're very satisfied
that you've found out everything you wanted to find out this is successful, a successful phone call, what do we get
accomplished, from your perspective, and then let them talk. And they'll tell you what they want to get done. So you
make sure that whatever you're going to say includes giving them what they came for, so that it can be a successful
meeting, by their definition, in real time. And then what you're trying to get done is you're trying to understand as you
know, from the training, what it is they're trying to accomplish, and why and why. Right, okay, and then whatever
they're looking at is always compared to what this is the other very, very, very important component. So as
compared to what well I’m looking at being passive. Oh, that's interesting. Why is that? I'm interested, I'm interested,
I'm also interested in being active. Oh, that's interesting. Why is that? You know, they're, they're very different. there's
pros and cons on either side and see what they say. And see if they really know what they're talking about. And then
maybe you can interject some things that will disturb them about maybe one of the paths that you're doing to share
with them as somebody who's been through the jungle before, you know, where the lions and the quicksand and the
Cobras and, you know, the ravines and all that stuff, you know, where the, the the minds are, you know, you've been
through the minefield to again, mix metaphors. Does that make sense?

14:59

It does very well.

Russ 15:00

Yeah because if you find out hey, | want to be like you | want to be a syndication just like you as syndicators just like
you like, you know, great, great | belong to a club and there's all kinds of us and we do business sometimes we're
passive sometimes we're active, you know, some of us are very active in our niche. But others of us invest passively
and other people who are active in their niche so you know, maybe you're interested in doing single family homes,
that's what | do. But maybe somewhere down the road, you're gonna do mobile homes, apartments, ATM machine,
co2 scrubbers, | mean, notes, there's all kinds of different things that people in the club are doing. Right, you know, if
that's their goal, and I'm not saying that is their goal, you don't know their goal, but you have to find out again, what
it is they want to get accomplished in the meeting, what it is they want to get accomplished in their investing. And
why? what they hope, you know, what that what the motive, what they hope to the outcome, how they want life to be
for themselves, when it's over, they're doing it for a reason. And they just may or may not know what it's really going
to be like, or how good it could be with you. And it may not be | mean, you never want to make it recurve agenda,
you want to make sure that you're always, you know, saying, Hey, I'm here to help you. But at the same time, you
know, if they start calling you up, and they want to be mentored all the time, you know what, I'm not really in the
business of mentoring. I'm happy to help you. But if you really want to get mentored, join this program. And then you
can see how committed they are. That helped.
© Russ 03:06

| can hear you. Great. Can't see you. Okay, give me one second. I'm

03:09

having some audio issue with my

_JO

© Russ 03:12

Yeah, it last night. It was it was weak, and then all sudden, it got real strong. It's good right now. Okay, perfect.

03:18

JO

Yeah, so my question. There's a, there's two investors I've been in discussions with. And they're, they originally, it's
been over the course of like, two months, they're interested in passive investing. And they really like the asset class.
And they've been also they have an interest in being active as well. So they found a deal in a market that I'm in | told
him, you know, if you guys want to use my team, you're happy to, I'm happy to share, they need those resources and
all that, and they want help underwriting but | think that's the deal they want to do themselves. I'm happy to help
them out. But | don’t think that |, I've explained that it's going to be very different if they're investing passively with
the syndicator versus if they're going to do it themselves. Like they think that if they just use the same property
manager, that's the unicorn and everything's gonna go perfect. So from a sales standpoint, | you know, | want to help
them with their goal of acquiring more investment properties, but how would | | guess, if you were in my shoes, what
would you do to just kind of let them know that it's, it’s, you know, like the iPhone analogy, like having all the parts for

the iPhone is not the same as buying the iPhone from Apple. How would you convey that?

© Russ 04:37

Well, | think there's a couple things first, anything you do to try them talk to talk them out of doing it on their own,
because of your positioning is going to sound like sales pitch. So the the best way is if you can find something third
party to refer to Robert tells a story and you've probably heard him tell this because you've been in the universe for
so long, but The old fizbo story, the idea that a real estate agent would go out and conduct seminars on for sale by
owner. And he would get into excruciating detail about everything that went on in a transaction from soup to nuts.
And, and if somebody took everything he taught them how to do and went out and did it, they could do their own
transaction. However, after going through that educational process, and this was taught by a third party person who
was not party to the transaction, necessarily, or though Actually, | take that back, | think he actually he started out
using it as a personal technique, and he would show it to his clients, and then they, some of them would hire them,
others would start the process and then give up and hire him ventually he created as a third party product, and real
estate agents would go out and show it and say, hey, look, you know, here's something, if you're going to do it
yourself, | totally want to help you watch this. And it would teach them how to do it. And then after watching it, they
would be like, wow, | think | better hire professional. So if there’s something out there that exists third party, tap into
that, if it isn't, maybe you could create something, and then have it created kind of third party, because this is going
to come up potentially, over and over again. that that would be the first choice in my mind, right? The idea that you
want to explain to them everything that's in it from a position of not having a dog in the race, a dog and a horse in
the race a dog in the hunt. Yeah. Anyway, you know what I'm saying. So that'd be first choice. Second choices,
because that sounds like a heavy lift, | wouldn't put that kind of effort into it unless you thought you were going to
_)oO

scenario you know something having to do with sales or marketing, you know, building your brand, building your
network, engaging in a conversation struggling getting where you want to go. Oh, Steph has another question. So
he's will leave you on decks app. If we get crickets here. I'll put Back up because better to have, you know, it just
shows that you're out there in the real world doing stuff, which | know you are. And some folks are still just getting

started. But anybody else you got one Jeremy,

Sa7 |

on trying to write a newsletter, it seems really simple and you jump out there and start writing and what? | don't want
to get caught up too much. Because | know that a lot of that | can, you know, do it myself. mentality. | know | need to
write the newsletter. But how much of it do | need to do? How much do | need to know about writing? | know, I'm not
a writer by trade, | can write down my thoughts. | can get it all put together, | can send it to writers. But is there like
I've heard you talk before about, hey, if you have three things, start with your, your middle your weakest? And then
your best, Eleanor, you know, is there a Do you? Do you just pick up headlines out of the news? Do you start with a
topic and then go find the news to support it? Is there? Is there a resource to go look at just a little bit about how to
get untracked trying to get the newsletter started? Because | just I've got it on my plate and it just sits there because
you know, I'm just confused on it, |

Russ 36:07

think Yeah, so in press fields book, The War of Art, he talks about that. And | did the same thing. For three years, |
was supposed to write a weekly newsletter. And in three years, | wrote on average two to three a year. And then one
day | just committed and | just said, Okay, I'm going to start a publishing schedule, and I'm going to do it and |
banged it out consistently for many, many years. Only recently did | back off the schedule a little bit, because we're
doing more content like this, and making more videos in YouTube. And | decided that the audience can go there for
some of that commentary and less to the newsletter. But with that said, I've obviously written a gazillion newsletters.
And I've also written a lot of sales copy. So first and foremost, you have to understand that a newsletter is something
very different than sales copy. So a persuasive writing, what you were talking about is is where you have some type
of a thesis, your thesis statement, and you're you're saying, you know, this is what | think this is why i think that i think
syndication is the greatest opportunity ever. All right, then I'm going to make my case. And I'm going to make my
case by putting my second best argument first, my third best argument in the middle and Michael, I'm gonna close
with my strongest argument and then issue a call to action, whatever that call to action is, you can make some of
that technique into your newsletter. But let me just stay on the sales copy for just a minute. The other thing is you
have to realize that you're dealing with different demographics, even as you're writing the newsletter. So you've got
someone who is going to read the headline. And of course, your headline is Uber important, because if they don't
open the message, nothing else matters. | don't care how good it is, nobody's reading it. Right? So you got it, you got
to just nail that headline, and you just learn by doing. Right. So once they do it, you got to give them enough
information. So the person who makes fast decisions can click and make their decision. Like, you know, it could be an
announcement that you know, quick notice to everyone. We our latest project is 85% subscribed. If you've heard
about it, and you think you'd like to learn more, now is the time Click here to set up a consultation, download the
documents apply to receive the executive summary, whatever your CTA is, then it's done. Now somebody goes, |
don't know anything about it. What's that about? Well, okay, if you're not familiar, boom, now you're explaining what
the thing is all about. Right? And then somebody says you give them kind of the overview, very quick overview, and
then you give them the call to action. And then at the bottom is like somebody says, okay, all that sounds good, but
I'm kind of, you know, engineer by trade, and | need a little bit more information. And so now you're talking to the
person who needs more detail is a little bit more skeptical. You might introduce some social proof, some anecdotal
stories, some statistical third party evidence, something and then you issue a call to action. Alright, so that is kind of
a persuasive newsletter, or even even kind of a promo email. Okay. Now, as far as writing a newsletter goes, you have
to understand what you're doing in writing a newsletter, why are you putting content out there, and you're doing it to
scratch an itch that the your target avatar has. So you have to talk about things that are going to be interesting to
the person you want to do business with. Okay, and it goes back to greed and fear. You know, what are they hoping
to get what are they afraid of losing most wealthy people tend to respond better to fear than greed. That's why you
see the news alll filled with both but but a lot of a lot of the newsletters that cater to really high end people you know,
are about risk management. People are not worried about growing their network. worth as much as they are in
protecting it. So, but again, it depends on what it is your deal offers, you know, if you're doing forced equity and
you're helping people grow wealth quickly, you know, because you're doing development, well then you know, you're
gonna cater to people who are interested in growing their wealth. And that’s what you're going to start with. So you
have to kind of your newsletter is going to kind of be based on your investment thesis, you're not putting your
investment thesis out there, but you have to be aware of what your investment thesis is, you have to be aware of who
your avatar is, and what their, what their pain points are, what their hot buttons are, what's going to what's going to
stoke their fears, or Stoke their, their greed or their ambition, okay. So you have that kind of in your mind, and you
know who you're writing to, then the purpose of the writing, is to paint a picture of yourself, to remind them who you
are, and give them pieces of the puzzle, not the whole thing, just pieces of it. So and they need to trust you in two
critical areas, they need to trust your ethics, and they need to trust your competency. So if you can you say
something kind of subtly in what you're writing about, that talks about your your your your, your business ethics, or,
you know, where you saw something and headed made a decision or decided to do something, work that in | would
say, downplay that a little bit, because if they're already reading your stuff, they probably already trust you a little
bit. And you can assume that the most people tend to trust successful people. Until you've given them a reason not
to trust and if you over tout your integrity and your ethics, it sounds like you're you're covering like, don't look in that
closet, you can look anywhere else you want, but just don't don't look in there because that one probably for sure
doesn't have anything in it, you know? And of course, that's the first place everybody's gonna go look right. So like |
said, you don't think about the Eiffel Tower, the first thing you think about the Eiffel Tower, you can't help it right? I've
got to distract you by talking about other things. | think about oranges, think about oranges, you're not thinking
about the Eiffel Tower, something like that. Now, so. So you've got that. So and then, you know, you can do case
studies you can do you can you can tell stories about due diligence. But what you're going to be doing is you're going
to be introducing to people, concepts that are about your investment thesis, right? So you can talk about the context
of what's going into the market. And then how am | approaching the market based on what | see right? If you read
financial newsletters, that's what they talk about. You read a guy like Ray Dalio, who's like, Okay, | see a lot of
concerns with the dollar. | think that the Fed is gonna outlaw Bitcoin, you know, | mean, he's, he’s got things to say he
has, he has things he believes, and he makes his case. So really, that’s what a newsletter is about. And you're giving
them something they want to learn about, maybe something they can't hear or see someplace else, or something
that they hear about all the time, but they don’t understand how it relates to them directly. | mean, that's kind of my
stock and trade, | take stuff that’s happening in the Daily News. And | make it relevant to real estate investors. And
people like to read that because nobody's talking to that demographic. And of course, | have a thesis, which is real
assets are better than paper assets, | have a thesis that the dollar is more likely to decline in value than increase in
value over the long haul. | have a thesis about income being true investing versus, you know, capital gains. And so
you know, you've read my stuff long enough to know that there’s a common theme, even though the content is all
very different. And you kind of just have to identify what those things are get clear on who you're talking to the
picture that you need to paint in their mind, the pain points you need to touch, or the triggers that you need to touch
either pain or greed to capture their attention. And then you pivot off of stuff that they already understand to explain
things to them, they don't understand. And then ultimately, suddenly, you're you're explaining to them that why your
investment thesis makes sense, based on what's going on in the world. And then that way, they're beginning to trust
your judgment. And when you put a deal in front of them that supports your investment thesis. A folks you know, for
the last six months, we've been talking about what's going on, and we just found a deal that fits. And here's the way
it works. And here's why it makes sense. And you've already developed all of that understanding of the investment
thesis before they ever see the deal. Which of course is going to be part of your presentation of your deal. Right you
part of your presentation of your deal. Okay, here’s the market conditions. Here’s the investment thesis. Here’s the
market. Here's the the the the deal, here's the numbers, here's the team, and now they can see okay, | get the context
for the deal. The numbers are attractive for my capital, and | trust the team to execute now | see the story. Now I'm

ready to do the deal. And then you just have to show them how to how to engage Right. But the concept is always
April 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales and
Marketing...

@ Thu, 10/212:44PM @©@ 1:02:13

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, deal, property, talking, sales, understand, investment thesis, motives, newsletter, business, question, explain,

property manager, rebrand, real life scenario, third party, trust, greed, put, sandwich

SPEAKERS

Russ, Craig Kamman, John Graham, Janna Hubbs

Oo
O)

Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club, it’s Russ, we're here for our April edition of Ask the mentors and we're talking sales
and marketing today got a group of folks here some new folks, which I'm excited about, | think, no, I'm excited if
you're new, but sure, if you're new, I'm sure I'm excited. If you're here, and you're new, I'm just not sure that if you're
here, you are new. JOHN, | see that you're here. So you're new. So | officially stepped all over that for no purpose
whatsoever. Anyway. So we have no pre submitted questions, which is fine. | don’t expect that maybe from the new
folks. But from some of you vets, hopefully, you're out there talking to people, hopefully you're out there, getting
involved in presenting deals, dealing with engagement, which is kind of a code word for objections. And, or, or you're
involved in recruiting people. Investor Relations, communications, might be involved in recruiting advisors, or
teammates, or vendors or negotiating deals, | mean, the sales techniques apply to pretty much anything. And once
you memorize those patterns and principles that we teach you, and how to win funds and influence people, then you
pretty much know what to do in almost any situation. And when you have a brain fade, which I'm famous for, you
also have the skill set to be able to fall back onto by yourself a little bit of time with, you know, what | call the
extenders, keep them talking while you gather your thoughts. So with that said, I'm not going to open up with a
bunch of comments, because we do have a pretty good collection of folks. And | want to make sure that if you did
come with a question, a real life scenario, something you want to kind of get worked through, in either the sales or
marketing category, you get a chance to go so | can't necessarily see everybody because everybody doesn't have
their camera on. And | do believe that you have the ability, but let me just double check to unmute themselves. Yes,
you're checked, you should be able to do that we had some issues on that last night. So if for some reason you can't,
then chat, and Stacy will monitor that and draw it to my attention. Let's see, I'll put the chat box here where | can see
it better. Okay, so with that said, Who's got something a real life scenario? Or maybe a mental block against getting
into a real life scenario because that’s part of it, too. Managing your psychology? But Who wants to go first? And no
dead air. So don't be shy. Just jump in. Step | know you're out there. You're gonna save me. You're gonna make me
monologue can always count on the inner circle guy. Okay. All right.

03:04

Sorry, can you guys hear me?
Oo
O)

to solving the real problem. And talking to the real avatar. And so what you don't want to do my opinion, is take a
wild guess, and put a whole bunch of money into that, and then find out that, you know, you were solving a problem
that really didn't exist. And you really didn't solve the main problem. | mean, if the real real problem is there's just
outrageous demand for one bedrooms, and there's no demand for three twos. Then again, maybe the shared
housing model, or maybe who you remodeled, and you turn them into, you know, because if you say hey, there's a lot
of people to say, | don’t want to have three people living in a property, but if you use like Jean greeno, shared
housing money, you know, hey, we've got, you know, we got these three bedroom units, it'd be perfect for three
singles if you can't afford a single on your own. Now, | said, you take the people that aren't even qualified for the one
bedroom and you turn them into tenants by making them joint tenants in a three bedroom. And again, I'm not telling
you how to run your property, I'm just saying, as a marketer, that all messaging has to be about, about scratching the
itch Of The Avatar, which means you have to understand what is missing in their life, what the real problem is. And |
think it's probably worth a little bit more thought on your part because you weren't 100% clear before you start
throwing money or even spending a bunch of time trying to figure out how to execute a rebranding because
executing rebranding not that complicated the messaging and how who you deliver the message to that changes a
lot but you can't figure that out unless you really know who you're targeting and what it's you're trying to scratch
Okay, that was a good question. All right. They all weren't good but that was that was good. Okay, so we are top of
our | thought that we had one more but I'm not seeing one more. So does anybody just feel like this is a complete
bust if you don't get your one question answered? Is that Johnny waving your hand or you just | just didn’t hear a |
didn't hear a problem. | heard | want to rebrand | didn't hear why. Yeah, that’s exactly yeah. And so it my sales
training right the first thing | recognized as | was getting a what, and | didn't have a why. So the temptation is to
salesperson is to immediately answer the what and you spend all this time in dialogue answering the what and the
customer still doesn't move forward because they don't even know their why it’s not in use. This is very common. That
was a sales interview, where | was realizing the Janet didn’t know her why. And as soon as | realized she didn't know
or why rather, there's been one minute giving her why My whole focus was on saying, hey, let's focus on the Y. And if
you don't know your y, then let's work on solving for the Y before we work on solving for the what because the what
is really grows out of a y. Now the why the what is a clue right? Now in other words, a lot of times people instinctively
want a what they want something, but they really don't know why. But the Why is in there, they just don't know it,
you got to dig it down and pull it out, make it more clear. And so you're, you're better able to prescribe a solution that
is very targeted towards that very conscious, why that is now on the table that you've both seen and agreed to. And
if you don't get that that's where a lot of sales gets missed, because people don't get that out on the table. And then
they're just, they’re slinging stuff, hoping something sticks to the heart. But they've never talked to the heart. And the
brain is filtering. Right? If you've been through the training, you know that until you get the heart to place an order
with the brain brain is it the brain isn't pure shields up mode, the minute the heart places you order, the brain is like,
hey, I've got a problem. My heart gave me an order, I've got to solve this problem, | have pain, or | have something
that | really want. So if you don't understand that part of it, that’s why | always come back to motives. | mean, | think
you saw throughout this whole session, that common theme was always getting down to the why and the motives
and using it in every aspect of your communication. Okay, so | think we're going to call that a wrap. If you next time
if you come in and you do want to make absolutely sure your question get answered, just make sure you pre submit it
so that we'll deal with those right out of the gate. But | think all in all, we had a pretty good session. Thanks for those
of you that obviously are here. And those of you that are watching, thanks for watching, but hopefully you'll you'll be
live because these things are no fun to do by myself. But good group of people good questions, good real life stuff.
Really appreciate it. Thank you so much, and inner circle will talk to you tonight.

1:01:57
Thanks Russ. Thank you
JO

| mean, it's hardly worth your time. The only way it makes sense if you get to scale. And now you're you're you're
talking to them because they're not where you're at. They maybe want to be where you're at, but they’re not where
you're at. | mean, again, | don't know what their motives are. But if you remind them, hey, I've got you know, 200
houses. been doing this a while | know what I'm doing. And these are the things that I've explained. I’m not bragging
I'm just saying you know, having been in your shoes, knowing what it takes to go from where you are to where | am.
Here's some things to look out for. Or that's why a lot of my clients just plug in because I've already got all that built.
It's the same reason people go to work at a company who's already built a structure or entrepreneurs by a franchise
because they want to do the work and they want to be in the space, but they don't want to have to invent all the
systems and the accounting and the technology and working out the production or the, you know, the, you know,
whatever the r&d is on the product or the supply chain, | mean, you buy a franchise, all that stuff is handed to you,
you still have to go grow the business, but you get to focus on just a few components of the business, not the whole
thing. Now, I'm not saying that, you know, you're not the type of person or that there are people in the world that
should go out and start a business from scratch. Say with recipes, some people like to make a pizza from scratch,
other people go buy one that's frozen and pop it in the oven, right just depends on what you want. Other people just
drive to a restaurant have it served piping hot, right to your table. Nothing wrong with any of those three, but they're
all different. They come with their pros, they come with their cons, you pay a little bit more for the piping, hot pizza
delivered. But what's your time worth? Most people opt for that. Some people will go for the frozen pizza, very few
people make pizza at home from scratch. But some do. Because they love it, they're good at it. Most of the people
are making pizza from scratch or selling it to other people who don't want to the hassle. And they're doing it at scale.
And your competitive advantage as a syndicator. | mean, especially you where you're at a scale, you've already
achieved scale. So you just want to explain the benefits of scale and the disadvantages of not having scale and how
hard it is to get scaled up. And then they see that what you have is valuable. And again, | just jumped into like two or
three different analogies that anybody could relate to. Right? A business being an employee, buying a franchise or
starting a business from scratch, pizza, buying it, making it from scratch, buying it frozen, or, or you know even kind of
like make your own or serve piping hot, ready. People anybody can relate to that. You just have to make the parallels
over to what you're doing so they can see the benefit. And then you can say, you know, which? Which one would you
prefer? Which one do you think would be best for you and your situation? Let them tell you. And then when they give
you the what they think is best? What's your follow up question? Why, why? Oh, that's interesting. Why did you pick
that one? Right, then they'll try. This is all about motives, you can't move somebody's motives like motivation, all
comes from, you know, their motives, their emotion, motion, emotion, you have to find out what they're thinking,

what they're feeling what they're afraid of, you know, what their, what they're greedy for. Those are the two investor
emotions, greed and fear. You have to work through that process and every piece of it to just try to figure out, you
have to set your motives so that they have context for everything else, you're going to say that's what setting the
table is about. And then you have to get their motives out so you understand how to prod them along poking on the
emotions that were there chasing what they want, or running away from what they're afraid of. And you don't know
that in the beginning. And they don't really either they can't articulate it. That’s why people go to therapists, like all
kinds of stuff going on inside, they can't get it out. And if you ask great questions, and that stuff begins to come out,
and you can begin to make sense of it. And also they're like, wow, this guy gets me he understands. And it looks like
he not only has a good diagnosis, but he’s actually got a prescription that probably meet my need. Now you got a

sale. Okay, makes sense?

23:31
It does. Yeah.
Russ 23:32

Okay. Well, we recorded this. So you go back and watch it over and over again, because | know you're a diligent
student, and that's why we record. All right, well, did we simulate anything? Anybody else? Does anybody want to ask
JO

the same, right? The content is the deal. The context is the investment thesis and the market conditions that make
the deal make sense within the context of what's going on. And the thing is, if you approach your business, that way,
you're going to be head and shoulders above, you know, 90% of the syndicators out there, just run around with their
deal, throwing your deal at people hoping someone to go Yeah, that makes sense to me, but they're not helping it
makes sense to them. Or you may worse get somebody who buys a deal because they like it. They think they like it,
but they really don't understand the context. And then they wake up and like when they get the context, like, what
am | doing in this deal? This is a dumb deal for me. And now you have an unhappy investor and then they call you
up, Hey, can | get out well, was it was a five year deal. And we're three years in I'm, you know, sorry, that you just
figured yourself out. But it's awkward, right? You can, you can, you can mitigate a lot of that by doing good sales t
technique on the front end, and then cultivating with the right bait. Like we don't deal with very many issues in our
syndication program, because we we work so well, leading with our culture, our thesis, and then our filtration process.
By the time you get into the program, the odds of you getting along with everybody, the odds of you being the right
person, the odds of you being somebody we'd like to be around are very, very high. So Robin, | have to deal with a lot
of rejection. Because we have all this filtration built in, by the time you're in a personal relationship with us, we
filtered out a lot of the people that we're not going to get along with. Not that they're bad people. They're just not,
it's not a match. And that's okay, too. So again, we recorded this, do you need any clarity on any of that? Does that
make sense?

46:35

No, it doesn't make a lot of sense, especially the pivot from something they understand to something they don't
understand. And mainly just being clear on how to help them understand that because | think that's what draws me
to writing is because | found myself getting into presentations, where as | have them understanding, and then | take
them to where they don’t understand and then | get way deep in what they don't understand. And then | see their
eyes glaze over and go oh, crap, | missed somewhere. And then I'm step in. So

Russ 47:01

yeah, so in other words, what is it? Like, what is it like what is something that they understand? You know, and | go
back to, you know, arguably one of the greatest communicators ever Jesus, right? Jesus showed up, he’s trying to
explain to shepherds, farmers and fishermen, very simple people living a very simple life. And he's trying to explain to
them, you know, the principles of heaven and creation, and eternity. And how does he do it? It's like, what do you I'm
a fisherman Oh, well follow me. I'll make you a fisher of men. What do you I'm a farmer Oh, yeah. Well, the kingdom
you know, the Word of God. It's like a seed and you planted in the soil. And, you know, and, and he would use these
parables or these analogies that people understood from their daily life, these concepts that they didn't understand.
And that's the secret is really being able to figure out that’s why the more you know about who you're talking to. And
of course, in pop culture, you can pivot off a lot of things like, you know, last night you were on, | think you were on
the call. But But we talked about, or maybe you weren't but but last night with, with the new folks, we use football, we
talked about football, because you know, even if not everybody really knows football, but they but it doesn't take
much because we're tied describing in your business when you're starting, you know, there's pre season, there's
offseason, there's preseason, there's training camp, there's, you know, just the progression that you go through and
building your business. But we were taking them assuming that they didn’t have the business background. We were
giving them something that is a business. Football is a business, but it's something it's a business, everybody sees like
| did the | did the sandwich thing earlier, right? | mean, you just have to quickly take inventory of what do you have to
work with? What What do people already understand? And how is what I'm trying to explain like that. And once
you've done it a few times, you know, and you think about it, he becomes, you know, becomes second nature.

Because you know, there's only so many things right? So anyway, | know we've got some other stuff here. Anything
oe 8

JO

went through in your development, for them to decide for themselves, because it has to be their decision, that it's not
worth it, that they'd be better off with you. And that really comes down in my mind in this particular kind of scenario,
with scale, because unless somebody is managing a very large portfolio of their own, most people are not going to
have enough scale, to be able to do all the work and have it be worth their time, anybody that's got enough money
to make an investment is probably got valuable things they could be doing with their time, more valuable than
operating a very small investment company, which is effectively what they would be doing, which is why people
choose for convenience sake, to invest through third parties. And that's the sweet spot that we live in. But there are
going to come times when people either think they, they want to scale and they have ambition, or they have plans to
syndicate. And that's okay, too. But But my point is yes, you use the discussion of due diligence to do two things. One
is to explain what all is involved, and what you do, which demonstrates the value of what you do, and also to give
them yeah, | don't want to use fear. But it’s a reality check. And it gives them pause to think well, maybe this is going
to be harder than | think it is. And the question then becomes, is it worth it? every investment decision really comes
down to one thing, is it worth it? Well, there's a list of pros and there's a list of cons and you have to be aware of
them. The Ben Franklin closes, you know, you list all of the pros of doing business with you. And then you ask them to
come up with the cons. And what will happen is you help them with all the pros and not so much with the cons. And
if they can figure it out, then they'll realize they're better off with you than not the flip side of it is to do it the other
way around. You know discuss all the cons of doing it themselves. I'm not a fan of that only because you're trying to
talk them out of doing what they think they want to do. But yeah, do due diligence is is is it but it’s you know, of
course, there's more than that. That's the due diligence on the team due diligence on the market, due diligence on
the property, due diligence on the tenants, due diligence on the vendors, that's all part of it, just getting it all put
together. But any deal any company, any enterprise goes through three phases, you've got your design phase, where
you kind of map out what you think you want to do, and it's in your imagination, which is where it is for these folks.
Now. Then you've got to implement it, meaning all the components have to be put in place, you got to put in the
team, you got to get the deal, you got to get the financing, you have all the components done. And then once you're
in the deal, you've got to maintain it, you've got to do maintenance. So you've got architecture or design, you've got
implementation, getting everything set up, and then you've got the maintenance and you have to run the thing all
the way to whatever the disposition is. Those are all three different skill sets. Three different seasons have the
lifecycle of the of the investment. And, you know, to do it efficiently, like in any production line, you've got to have the
right supply chain of ideas, information, access to sources, team, all that stuff. So as you describe that process, due
diligence is part of the process. But it's bigger than due diligence. But due diligence is an important part of it. So
that's a good comment. Okay. Craig, you're waving your hand? Can you unmute yourself? Or do we have to do it?

30:19
figured it out? All right,

Russ 30:21
good.

Craig Kamman_ 30:21

You're just a quick question for some of these people by chance, like engineers, architects, what do they do for work?

30:30

That's a stereotype. I’m offended. Yes,
use it over and over and over again. You could sit down and say, Hey, guys, you know, | don't really have a, you know,
a giant incentive, obviously, you know, if you do business with me, there's something in it for me. And if you don't,
there's not but with that said, | want what's best for you. So right away, the key is in the in the setting the table
component, which is for those of you that haven't seen how to win friends and influence people you've got set the
table, touch the heart, engage the mind. So in the set the table, that’s when you're getting into position, and what
you're doing is you're dealing with motives, and you're putting your motives on the table early. So even though they
may be cynical of your motives, because they may think oh, you're just a greedy salesperson trying to get me to do
what makes you money. Rather than pretend that’s not there, you're gonna put it right on the table and deal with it
right up front. And then because your demeanor is the way your demeanor is, and you're very non salesy in a very
good way, you're very sincere, then you explain to them, you know, if you think it'd be helpful, I'd be happy to share
with you the things I've learned over the years of doing this. And you've already kind of instinctively gone down that
path. But then you map them, you map them all the way through it, because your gut is telling you and | don't know
whether you're assuming this, or they actually told you the idea that hey, the property manager, that's the unicorn,
that's the magic piece. If | get that one thing done, everything else is easy. So what you want to do is, is go through,
and | think we've actually done some stuff about managing the manager. In fact, | think even you did one of those
pieces of content, right? Correct. Yeah. So that would be where you could point out, hey, I'm part of this program,
and this mentoring club, and there's advisors, there's mentors, and we mentor each other. And | actually did a
presentation once on on managing the manager. And I'd be happy to share with you the information that |
presented to this group of sophisticated syndicators. In other words, you just kind of you reminding them that you
have creds number two, you are, you're being totally helpful, and you've already dealt with the whole agenda thing.
And then number three, is you're saying that, what you what you teach is so valuable, that even people who are
professionals, which they aren't, they're novices are learning from you. Okay, so that's great positioning, then you go
ahead and deliver the content. But but start with the entire lifecycle just the same way you would, you know, when
you're developing a process, right, you start out say, okay, from the beginning, you got to go find the deal, you got to
vet the deal, you got to control the deal. You have to arrange the financing for the deal. You have to close on time,
then you have you know, and the inspections you know, you know better than me everything right, and then you've
got to review the tenants, you know, because typically they get stuffed with garbage tenants, and you got to fix that.
You've got to install the property management. This is where the managing the property manager, you've got to be
on call to make the decisions that don't fit within the property managers realm of responsibility and their discretion
in the beginning, you're going to keep them on a tight leash, if you don’t know them. And as they earn the right to
make good decisions, you give them a little bit more. You got to review The financial reports every month and then
you know, investigate things that don't look right. And you just go through the whole thing all the way through all the
stuff that you're doing. And what you're doing is you're demonstrating the value, which really should be part of a
presentation anyway. You know, when people look at your management fee, like, what am | getting for that, tell them
tell them what you do. | mean, those are the features of what you do. And then the benefits to them is that they don't
have to do it. And the reason it's more affordable to hire you to do it than do it themselves is, and this comes back to
this other thing is, is that you have economies of scale, you have team members, you have people that are
processing this for them, they're not going to have that they're not going to have anybody to dish to it's they're going
to have to do it 100% themselves. And then it begs the question, what's your time worth? What else could you be
doing with your time? You know, right? Yes, could you could you could you go, if you looked at the cost of the
ingredients of making a sandwich for lunch, is that cheaper than if you go to subway? Yes, unless you factor in that,
it's time to go to lunch, and you drive to the grocery store, you walk up and down all the aisles, you buy what you
need, only enough for the lunch, you're gonna eat, and then you you, you have to go someplace to prepare it, and
then you prepare it, and then you consume it. And then you know, you have to deal with putting away what's leftover.
At the end of the day, you say, Okay, | saved, you know, $1.50 in components of cost, and | spent $25 in labor, when |
could have gone to subway for 599 and gotten a sandwich, in and out. Right, it’s that same concept, you have to
deal in concepts that people understand every day. And what people fail to do often, as you will know is they don't
make any allocation for their labor costs. And so there's a convenience factor that all the features of what you do,
but they don't have any context for that, because they don’t know what you do, they're going to get making a
sandwich shopping for the ingredients making, they're going to get that they have zero idea really, if this is their first
time what it takes to be you, you have to tell the story. And then, you know, then after that you have to you can say,
