out, | wanted to make sure | had months to find a new tenant, they agreed to that. So but we did all that before, you
know, they we we removed our contingencies to buy and the seller who had had this tenant was instrumental in
making it happen. | mean, what he had to sell was this tenant, he knew it. So we paid a lot more than the building we
would have otherwise, but as a lot more valuable, but it’s only valuable to the point that that tenant is solid and

stays and does their business. And it’s the same for you. You want these guys to win, because if they don't, your
return is not good.

Alex Petkas 1:12:36
Thank you. That's really helpful.

Robert 1:12:37

All right, well, | think we'll leave it at that we can always revisit this one if we need to. But thanks everybody. And
whether you're watching the recording, or you were here live great to kick off this, ask the mentors deal dude every,
every month, so you can submit deals in advance. And that would be awesome. If you want to send either a quick
executive summary or a pro forma or something that you want us to talk through, we can do that as well. For the
next one, I'll probably have a little template that | use that we can run through some numbers if we need to. I'll get
more prepared for our future deal calls. But thanks, everybody, and we'll look forward to seeing some of you this
weekend who's coming this weekend. All right, well, we're gonna have a great time. It's going to be an awesome
event. We'll see you there for the rest of you. We'll see you next time. Thanks, everybody.
checks a lot of boxes. It sounds great. like okay, right. So before | go to a lot of work and a lot of trouble. Let's see if
anybody else has feedback on it. And and that's one of the things about this tribe as well. Scott is once you get a
deal to a certain place, not just the purpose of these calls. But you know, you've got people who've been done these
kinds of deals, like a guy that jumps to mind instantly is SEPA calm, or Ed sirna Boney, both those guys have done
packages of single family houses and could be some help when it comes to you telling the story and make sure you
get details and so forth. But on so so the numbers | don't know, it seems I'm with Craig and and it seems the numbers

are a little tight.

Scott Florida 39:09
That's helpful, very helpful.

Robert 39:11

So it would take a little more, you know, due diligence, you'd want to find out, they allege that the rents could be
higher than check with the property manager, hey, I’m hearing this, what do you think, you know, give me your best
man, I'd love to hire you if we buy these houses. But I'd really like to get your take on what you think they might get.
And that property manager might tell you a number might give you a range, or might give you some comps, hey,
here's three properties we have in the same neighborhood. And here's the configuration, here's where they ran for.
Alright, so | don't want to spend all the whole time on just one question, but it was a good one. Any other things that
| noticed more in your in your write up assuming that we didn't cover the things critical at this point?

Scott Florida 39:52

No, | mean, obviously | got a bunch of follow up questions too, but | don't want to keep you know, monopolize the

time. So this is been super helpful. And there's a lot to chew on. | can't wait to go back and rewatch this.

Robert 40:08

| appreciate the question. And the reason | wanted to start with you, Scott, is that you were pretty early in the
process. And that's perfectly fine. And for our first call, like that makes a lot of sense. Let us kind of set a foundation.
Just know moving forward, for those of you watching live or on the recording that you can bring a deal at any stage.
| mean, it can be three days from funding, and you've got a fire to put out if it lines up with our schedule, right? Or it
can be a post mortem to write something. Didn't go right, or whatever. But great stuff. All right. So | think, is it Craig?
Craig, do you have one today? question today?

Craig Kamman 40:47

| knew | had to find on mute. All right. So what an investor, he’s looking to start out with a small project. I've got some
land. Looks like | could get about eight to 10 townhomes in so it'd be development, new construction, ballpark figures
right around a 6% cap rate maybe a little stronger, depending on what kind of market we go after. Yep. How do |
break that deal down? I'm wearing a lot of different hats developer, I'll bring in a general contractor for the
construction. And then would | be a syndicator on that technically, with one investor,
change the lease. And sometimes that works in their favor, because they can extend it or put it other terms. And |
mean, leases are written at the top moment in time, and many times both parties will like changes, you know, when
when rents go down, that happens, and | gotta hire these and it's time for you to renew, you know, especially
commercial, you know, it's a five year or 10 year lease, and you signed it in a very different time. And now, it either
benefits you or not all of a sudden they're jacking up the rent, or you renegotiate the price down even though your
lease says you're gonna pay a new, you know, up 10% more for the new year, you go, Hey, we got to renegotiate this
because look, the world is different. So you just, here’s what you want to be careful of in a situation like this, you as
the building owner, once you take over, are going to have some liability for what happens inside. So let's say some
terrible, hideous thing happens to senior resident, you're going to be named. And at the very least, | would want an
indemnification from the operator. That's a simple thing. All it basically says hey, they're not going to hold you
responsible doesn't mean that a plaintiff wouldn't a plaintiff is going to name you. And then you're going to point to
the amendment demonstration that says, Well, no, actually, I'm not running the business that, you know, your loved
one had the problem with, | just own the building. And unless it was a trip and fall where the building was in some
sort of disrepair, not your problem. So the way you do that, legally is you make sure you have an indemnification
clause, which most lending agreements have most property management agreements have. And it's pretty benign.
Most people don't read that, because it's very legal ease and say, Oh, I'm not gonna sign this. But if you don't have in
the current agreement, you definitely want to put it in there where you're indemnifying them now it only is only as
good as they are. So indemnification says so they get a $10 million, you know, judgment. And the management
company owns a pickup truck, and you know, three cases of books, well, then they're going to maybe seek to get
through that to the landlord. And then they can always do things like lien your property and all kinds of things. So
there's definitely a liability there. But | think there are some pretty easy ways to mitigate it. And you've already seen
quite a bit of dialogue with them, where they kind of understand what some of the shortfalls were. And | saw them
details about number of beds and licensing and all that, it wouldn't be unreasonable for you to require within a
certain amount of time that they get licensed. Like that’s just didn't listen, that’s going to help you it’s going to help
me it’s going to make the property more valuable, you're going to have more tenants. It helps everybody. But of
course, if | was going to go from three to 16, or 12, or whatever, I'd also want to make sure my rent reflected that
night. So those things aren't unreasonable. But the problem is, if you're this far and a week away, you don't have to
negotiate those things. little harder to do now not impossible. But, you know, if they’re reasonable, they want to have
a good relationship with you. They've got multiple reasons to have a good relationship with their landlord going
forward. You want them to win. You the things you're suggesting are things that are going to cost them a ton of
money and hurt their business. The things that are gonna make their business more bad. And actually, if I'm thinking
about putting my mom, dad, sister, grandparent in one of those facilities, I'm gonna feel a lot better if they're
licensed than if they're not. And just for those of you paying attention in certain states, there's a number of beds
under which a care home doesn't have to be licensed. So it's not like they're breaking the law. But it's kind of good
for everybody, for them to be licensed, especially if they have, you know, it's different in every place, but whatever the
requirements are, they usually can get more yield, if they're licensed. So | would just say, do what you can in terms of
getting a, an agreement to agree. So that's again, like an LSI, or them some sort of document where you provided
them what the lease is gonna look like. And them saying, Yes, we are fully intending to pursue the new lease, once
you own the building. That's about all you could do it. And then since it’s a single family house, it’s going to fall on a
residential tenant landlord law. So at the end of the day, you still have the right to evict them. | mean, they have a
lease and you took it over. But if they’re doing anything that is in breach of their lease, and the things you're
concerned about are very well, those things, you're going to be able to get the right attorney to help get them out if
you have to, you don't want to go down that road. And really a big attraction. Another thing, we bought a building
once with a master lease, that was brilliant. | mean, it was a very unique property, and we won't, we're already over
time, so wanna spend more time on it, other than to say that it’s a, it was, the big value for us was one less or one
one tenant, one check. Even though there were 50 something, you know, people staying in the building, we very
regularly received that check at the first of the month on time, like clockwork, | think the one time they were late,
they paid on the third. So it wasn't, you know, wasn't a public housing agency or anything like that. It’s a private
business, but made a ton of sense. Frankly, without that tenant, | wouldn't have been as interested in the business. So
| was more concerned making sure that tenant would stay and there was teeth in our agreement, we did a little thing

where they had a very small deposit, we've forced them to increase the size of their deposit. Because if they moved
circle at SMC and, and he did a deal, we gave out 90% of the money to the investors. And I'm looking at his deal
going 10% isn't a lot, but 90 percents the right number in order to attract capital. Yeah, and he did it, he got a bunch
of people. The next deal, he came out at 8515. And one of his guys, one of his bigger investors said, Hey, | thought it
was 9010. And he says, Well, it was on my first deal. But as | mentioned, it was my first deal. He was fully disclosing
everybody. I've been in real estate, but I've never done a syndication. So I'm gonna go lean, and I'm gonna err on the
side and be more of the investors, which was a story and it was true. But by deal number two, he earned the right to
shift the numbers a little bit. And now under that guy invest, but he never had anybody push back on at 515. Today,
he's a 7525 guy. Now he does the same kind of stuff. It’s all you know, single family and, and small multifamily, and it
fits fits in that wheelhouse. When | started, we did a lot of our early development deals, we literally raised the capital,
we did all the work. And we split the returns 5050 have seen those performance from the syndication it right down
the middle. They mean, they're half whatever it was, they made 20% of their money, | made 20% of the money. But
we didn't take a promoter upfront, we didn't charge a lot of fees and stuff. We just said, Hey, we're going to do all the
work and we're going to take half. So sometimes that's fair. So it really it really does vary. And | hate to give it
depends answer but that’s just, that’s just what you what your mission to do is figure out what are all the things that
you're calling, here's everything I'm bringing to the table, and by the way, you bring in a great general contractor that
you vetted, that’s on your side of the column, you're not the contractor if he was a partner, well then we'd have to
figure out how he or she was gonna fit in. But that’s something you're bringing, you're finding the broker, you're
finding the consultants, the everybody, right, you're that's so that all sits on. So just go through and figure out here's
what I'm doing. And here's what he's doing and and depending on what he’s doing, then you come up with
something that sounds like it's fair and raise up the flagpole.

Craig Kamman_ 57:54

It's let's just use 1% because it’s easy math. So you have the cash flow. Is that at 20%? Or is it the equity at 20
percenters? and both

Robert 58:05

are so good question. It doesn't have to be the same. It often is, frankly, when we are buying a long term, five year
seven year 10 year hold. Usually, whatever our split agreement is, it's going to be the same for the cash flow that
comes out monthly, but we probably pay quarterly, or for the appreciation when we revert and sell, but doesn't have
to be there's definitely people in the club that had done deals where they their primary emphasis is cash flow, and
they're going to hold for 10 years. So they say well, the investors get 80% of the cash flow. But when we sell the
investors get 60% of the upside. So rather than charge a reversion fee or sales fee, or you know, whatever you want
to call that fee, something for you to manage the closing and be paid for all that. Not the brokers job, but just
managing it all. Some people are in it for that long term. So if you can sell it, you can sell it, but they don't have to be
the same. They often are probably more times than not, it's the same number, but doesn't have to be the thing is also
reflective of what fees and things if you take a promoter upfront, which I'm a big fan of | didn't do that for my first 15
deals and Russ gray showed me how wrong | was to think that way. Because my background was real estate sales
and | only got paid when the deal closed, like Well, I'm used to that, like that’s not responsible, right because if
something happens to you, you got to make sure there's money in there to get the deal done. But if you have a big
promote, which | don't recommend, but if you had more front loaded costs then you maybe take out on the back if
there's a hurdle rate of preferred return where the investor wants five or six or 7% First, well then you're going to
make more on the back side so if you bet on the come it’s usually a little richer in your favor if you're part of the thing
right and and | always like to be in my own deals on both sides, meaning I'm going to be a passive investor on the A
side with 100 grand or a couple 100 grand as well as be the big guy. I've got to eat my own cooking Now if you don't

have money and you can't have your own cookin understood the example we give it syndication with David, the first
little, five investors or four investors in him and they split in five ways. He had no money, he was impossible for him to
put in 30 grand. So he found four guys that would bet on him. But you're gonna get a point your syndication grow,
you've got to have your own skin in the game.

© Craig Kamman_ 1:00:22

Okay, so if | put together a scenario, is that something that can be looked over?

© Robert 1:00:26

Yeah, absolutely. And | think as we do these calls in the future, perfectly fine to come with a pro forma. And we can
poke through it a little bit and and, you know, challenge some assumptions or, you know, just have a discussion
about it. That's always great. So | think Scott's story, love to get the point Scott, where you've got a pro forma, and
we can help you put that together, if you haven't done that before. And then then yeah, and then the other thing is
that the meetups, we often have people come and bring deals, usually a little further along, like a deal that's about
to pull the trigger. So imagine you have a deal, and you're ready to go, and you've got your executive summary done,
maybe your private placement is incomplete. But you just want another set of eyes. We've done a couple of those at
the meetups, where, you know, the members gotten the friend said, here's the deal, and here's a, you know,
presentation on it and help me poke holes in it. We did that inner circle, every time somebody has a deal, we send it
around to everybody, and everyone's busy. So you're not gonna get 100% participation. But many times some of the
best comments come from other people that aren't super close to it. So So yeah, the more you get a fleshed out, we
can definitely talk to you specifics. Hey, | know we said it'd be an hour, but | also know that Alex had a question. So
let's see how much we can get through it, Alex, and we may have to push off to next month. But are you with us?

& Alex Petkas 1:01:43

Sure. Yeah. Yeah. | mean, I'm happy to defer to Jared, if he’s got one too, but because mine is a little past, the
urgency, but I’m happy to share anyway.

@) Robert 1:01:56

Well take us through and we'll we'll at least give a short answer when we have to develop Okay, the future?

oO Alex Petkas 1:02:01

Yeah. So I'm, |, I'm working on a Arielle deal. That's an acquisition of a portfolio and four properties. And the some
issues came up. So | would be acquiring as just as the landlord, there's some management in place, serving as the
tenants in the current leases for these senior care homes. And some, some potential issues came up kind of late later
than they should have in the due diligence process. And so that's, that was a learning experience of what boxes to
have in your checklist. But so I, |, but in order to close the deal, | have to retain the existing management. So that was
kind of the you know, | guess I'm wondering to kind of generalize, like, | have some kind of concerns about the
management about the operators that | didn't have going into the deal that kind of came up late. And I’m
wondering, just kind of from a general perspective, you know, had, have you ever had a deal where you had to retain
the current management or operation in order to get it to close for a period of time afterwards.
be that you want to do the same thing you say to the seller, hey, I'm not asking you, right? Well, I'd like to come to a
price that doesn't include brokerage, and then I'll take care of my guy on my own, and you'd want a licensed Arizona
real estate broker, who you probably could just pay a fee rather than a percentage, because they didn't bring the
deal. They weren't shopping for the deal. But they can help you put together the deal and the disclosures, and they
can be I'm gonna guess they're gonna be more help than not, especially since you're syndicating the deal. So follow
me on this. I'm a sophisticated enough investor that | could probably get away with buying a house, single family
house, without a broker, | was licensed for 18 years, right? So | could, but | didn't for two reasons. One, | was licensed
in a different state. So | don't understand the nuances of a new state I'm moving to and secondly, it's a relationship
business, | got a relationship, great ratio for the broker, and | want to make sure | got a second set of eyes. That's just
me personally, when you have the fiduciary duty to investors, then you need to have a third party. So | would say it's
not even an option | would say you'd want at some point, bring a broker in, but | would consider couching it that way.
So you explain to the seller Hey, this isn't to mess up the deal or any of that | just, you know, I'm raising the money
and | want to be protected and | want to be protected. So we'll bring our broker in, but they won't, you know, you
won't be paying typically sellers responsible for the commission. So if you come to a price that is kind of without
commission, great, okay, so a lot there a lot to unpack there. But you're starting to build your team, you're going to
find a broker, a local broker, you're going to find, you know, this property manager, the next set of trades and so
forth, they're going to need is whatever cap x has to be done. And again, probably between those first two team
members, you're going to get referrals to the people you need to do whatever work may have to happen. But
fundamentally, here's where you have to get Now that you actually asked this in your email, Scott, when is it that you
make an offer? And how much work do you do before you do kind of like the whole timeline of a deal like this, and
this is a critical and the reason | like this scenario is that it's going to apply to a lot of people, not just this particular
deal, or the people on the call live, this is a fundamental question in syndication. So one of the things that Bob
always talked about is the control of the deal and how do you how much control do you have, and the kind of the
most controls if you already own a property and you're syndicating it after the fact and kind of the least control is,
Hey, I’m out looking for property. So in this case, at some point, you'd want to enter into a purchase agreement, or
possibly just a letter of intent, letter of intent, saying hey, I'd like to kind of outline our deal points and it's a little more
formal than just going back without a phone conference or email you know, kind of here's the sheet of the deal
points this is the price This is the rent you say you're getting, here’s the you know, work that you're telling me needs to
be done disclose me needs to be done, here are the inspections we'd like to have here's the timeline, you can be
upfront and should and say you know, listen, it's going to take me a little time to raise the money. So I'm not just
coming in with all cash and so one of the things I'm going to ask for is a longer close now with someone who's trying
to sell a bunch of houses at once it shouldn't be an issue see if they don't they could just put those is it six houses six
houses or eight houses 10 houses, they could just put those 10 houses on the MLS and sell them and maybe even get
a better price for them but managing 10 individual transactions and depending on what they're where they want to
put the money if they're doing a 1031 it becomes a nightmare to do it that way and one buyer one time one close
can be very intoxicating to a seller but the give and take on that as you're the bulk buyer you're buying them all so
expect a little bit of price maybe that's because they're not represented you want a little better price you know based
on their condition so you want to have the seller understand and this can be through a broker or you can negotiate
directly brokers give us that kind of arm's length situation which can be very important especially if you're not good
under fire right thinking on your feet. Part of the value add a broker brings you is the fact that they can
compartmentalize and say Mr. Mr. seller, my buyer wants this and the seller was no no no yes yes. Let me check with
my guys go back and I'll talk to the buyer right and they're not all in the same room at the same time. And that
protects us as buyers and sellers but in development and in syndication sometimes we do go direct so you just have
to be you decide if you want to be put on the spot so to speak but once you you know have had the kind of
expectation of here’s what the timeline is going to be this is why an LLC might make sense that way you're not
facing any surprises you're not spending a whole bunch of time and money writing an offer that they're going to
counter on three different things on easy deals like buying a house you know you usually use standard forms the
state or their real estate company have but when it's different you know packages and development all that kind of
stuff we usually craft our offers and the less changes we have to make the better so | like ello eyes. Let us kind of
flush everything out. Hey does this look good? That's okay all formalize it. Now you take a one pager and turn it into

an 11 page legal document as opposed to the first volley being an 11 page legal document now they're looking
sell. Now sometimes you know a little single family houses and derelict markets you know the the price is negative
you have to be paid to take those houses because their liabilities but the basic today | know about this property is a
great property. It's unique and that's why it hasn't sold but the prices are high. So you know we're going to be good
negotiating point of view, and the rest of the world is an anxiously buying right now. That's another thing to think
about. If you are looking at syndicating something, syndicating an office, or shopping mall, or hospitality might be a
little hard to sell right now. But syndicating and bread and butter housing, not so much now, what you're also doing
this whole time, Scott is you're accumulating this market information in a way that helps you tell your story to the
investor. So you're going to go learn about costs are gone. But you're going to put that information in a format where
you can pitch that to your investors meaning make a strong, compelling case for why this market makes sense.
Here's why we like the market. Here's why we like the properties. Here's why we like the team because all that is your
story. That's what you're going out with. So the timing is going to be kind Have a result of where the property sits,
how anxious they are to sell, what other offers they may have, it's obviously not listed. But you know, you just want to
see and you're starting to develop a relationship with these folks, this is great. And one of the key value ads you have
is to figure out what they want, and see if there’s a way to give it to them. Right, we don't always get to learn seller
motivation, that's part of that third party brokers keep us away from each other. But when we can, like in this case,
when you can really get some understanding into what they're trying to accomplish, then you can be their hero. Like,
for instance, this property we're looking at as a property the guide built 18 years ago, and owns to this day free and
clear. Oh, and he happened to house his business in it for 16 of those 18 years. And it is beautiful. It looks like the guy
really cared. Now that's the good part, right? This was the great labor of love. There's a lot of heart in this property.
But at the same time, this is a tenuous time looking at buying any kind of a property. So | have not yet got a
relationship with him because I'm working through a broker. But | know how to work those broker relationships. And
we've now been able to figure out this guy is very likely willing to carry he's got a right now personally or lease. So he
might carry the financing. Well, that's very interesting. Mikey carry at a pretty low interest rate. While he might right
now since interest rates just hit another 30 year low. And the compared to what right? So that's what you're looking
for. It’s just an example, if you're looking for these folks were they trying to accomplish and they go well, you know,
tax wise, we'd really like to do this in next year. Okay, that's probably works in your favor. If you need time. Right.
Now, if it was the other way, and they go off for a tax point of view, we'd like to close by December 31. Okay, well,
then you got to get moving, right? And people think that the holidays are a hard time to syndicate, but but not
necessarily, right? Because we're around people, everyone who hasn't seen you in a while is asking you, hey, what's
new? What are you working on? What are you doing, it can be a really good time to raise capital, don't go to a family
function, looking to raise capital, but still you're in touch with people, you know, at this time of year. So it's not a bad
thing. Not everybody shuts off their phone for November and December. All right. So that takes us through to getting
a contract. But the part you have to figure out is what I'm going to call your internal feasibility. So you throw out
some numbers. And we're going to go through those numbers. Before | do that, anything we need to clarify or any of
that from what we've done so far.

Scott Florida 32:40
No, I'm good. helpful. Yeah, Barry.

Robert 32:43

Alright. So what | think will be I'll be prepared to do in future, what your deal calls is do a live performer, my prepared
prepared to do that today. But that's just because we haven't done one of these before. And | think that could be a
good value add but big round numbers, you have 10 houses that are going to sell for one and a half million dollars. Is
that about right? days? That's $150,000 house. All right. Well, | mean, some are probably bigger and a little smaller,
but still, let's just say $250,000 a house. Okay, we all got our mind around that. Now. How much is the rent for the 10?
houses? It's at $700 8000. Okay, 8000. So if we divide the death by 10, that will be 800. So now here's a big question.
There's $150,000 house that rents for $800 a month Make sense? Good question. So let's see if anybody wants to
good kind of test tube to have them jump through say, Hey, I'm looking at these houses, they're telling me they rent
for x, could you take a quick look, does this seem reasonable? And the property manager will come back and say
seems good to me or Wow, that's pretty high or they've got room to raise and you want the property managers
opinion for two reasons. One, the seller is biased and so what a real estate broker B love real estate brokers but you
know, they'll say a broker Oh, yeah, these these, these are for $2,000 you know, all day long. And the property
manager says you have 1475 is about the top right, the property manager is the person that has to provide the
actual rubber meeting the road. So the second reason you asked the property manager, is you want them to decide
is this business that's good for them. If they look at the property and look at the rents and see there's room to raise
the rent. Remember, property managers usually get paid a percentage you mentioned 6%. That's certainly fair.
There's no magic number. never hire a property manager just because they have the lowest percentage. By the way,
that's probably the worst person to hire. Because there's only so much margin in that business. It’s not a lot, but if the
property manager looks at and gets excited about the portfolio, Great. The other thing is they're in the area. So once
you engage them, they'll be able to help you in the part of the due diligence in terms of trying to assess the current
situation with the homes, what kind of shape are they in? Is there deferred maintenance, or the things that need to
be done immediately before closing, or the things that you can wait to do but on a budget for those kinds of things,
and you're certainly going to want to go especially if you're gonna raise capital, see the property, | would never
advise anybody to raise money in a deal they haven't seen. I've seen people do it, but it usually doesn’t turn out well.
So you'd want to go see it. But given you know, your limited time and travel and all that kind of stuff, you want to
make the most of the time that you're there best case scenario is you've engaged the property manager on a basis
that, hey, if we do this digit basis, if we do this, then we'll hire you. And you're happy with it, you know, their services
and their price and all of that references, then you say, Hey, here's, here's the plan, I'm going to come in on this day,
we've got 21 days to the time we're in contract, and those will be an inspection. And that property manager can help
you line up any inspection folks, of course, the broker involved that there is, | think you mentioned your email, but

maybe on the call that there may not be a broker involved. Is that true?

Scott Florida 16:12

Yeah, that's correct. | connected with him on this on the properties in Memphis that he was selling. And then he told
me when we were talking about that, that he also had this portfolio in Arizona. So there wasn't he hasn't put the
Arizona properties on the market yet. The Memphis properties were on the market, and had a, you know, a broker
working with him.

Robert 16:36

Okay, great. So let's talk about that real quick. This is a very common situation that you've got a seller, perfect. | live
in a house that | used to rent. So when we first moved to Dallas Fort Worth, we weren't sure where we wanted to be
what areas schools all that. So we decided to rent for a year. A lot of people do that, right? So what your real estate
guy you want to rent? Well, | want to make sure if I'm gonna buy something, my home isn't an investment. | want to
buy the right house. Well, we own that house today. So part of our due diligence, in that case was trying to figure out
is this the neighborhood and all that kind of stuff? Once you figured that out? Well, our landlord said, Do you want to
buy the house? And we said, well, yes, we think we do. And he said, Well, I'll tell you what, even though we had a
realtor represent us as the tenant, the lease had gone on, and we'd renewed and the realtor hadn't been part of it.
And I'm the, I'm the last person to ever cut a realtor out of a deal. But there really wasn't a value out there. And he
said, Hey, if you want to set this up, and we'll do it, we'll just take 6% off the top. And and you know, that'll that'll be
better for you and better for us. | said, Okay, well, that’s great. And having said that, I'd like to be represented. So if
it's okay with you, I'll hire my own broker, and I'll pay them and it won't come out of the top, because that’s great. So
some of you know, Jay, Hartley J. Harley was our buyer's representative, if you were great guy been in the business a
long time. So my point of that is, there is certainly some advantage to working direct. But there's also a big

advantage to being protected, excuse me by a real estate broker. So you don't have to decide that today. But it may
they're there. They're two ones, four twos, three twos. And then there's a couple of them that actually have studios as
well. In them the price that they're at a one of the one | mentioned is they are one of the reasons why this guy said
he would manage them is because of the condition of the properties he felt like they were in pretty good shape. So
he was willing to that are in Casa Grande are also pretty good. So he’s asking 1.45, so 1,450,000 for the package of
homes in Casa Grande, the rents currently are 8075 a month. He suggests that the going rent is 10,110. And they're all
stable, so they're occupied and rents are consistent. And he describes them as really easy to manage. Manifest
doesn't just doesn't take a lot of time and energy to make it happen. | did a little bit of calling around to see if | could
find a manager | because it was in Phoenix | thought well, I'll just call him see companies and see if they know of
anybody down there and they connected me with Tim Thorne, who has an MC companies email address. And then
he connected me with a lady that he works with and the two of them | guess have helping them find housing for
executives or people And on a regular basis. And so she was interested in managing the property, she manages over
100 homes. And she was willing to do it for about 6%. And it’s nice to see, you know, might be able to find an
executive or you know, somebody like that, to fill that role. So my questions are just related to, how does that deal
look? What am | missing? And what steps do | need to take there?

Robert 05:39

Okay, great stuff and good background. We'll go through a couple things here that | think are instructive. So the first
thing is, single family homes as an asset class is something that works great for syndicators, and it’s something many
people can relate to. Sometimes what you push up against when you're syndicating Sing us a single family home,
which that's almost crazy to do, but right on a set of single family homes, is people saying, Well, | can | just invest in
this myself, | can just go find a home. So you won't have a good answer to that. And you do. This is a package of
homes, it's been maintained, well, allegedly, that's part of the due diligence. It's got a story, and you told us a little
more of the backstory, a story in your submission. So got some of that, you know, family that owns it, and so on. So |
think one of the things about understanding the asset type is that single family homes can have a lot less
maintenance and hands on management, and they tend to have longer leases. So this could be more of a hands off
or less of intensive kind of deal than something, you know, commercial or multifamily. So then finding professional
management, absolutely critical, not 100% required, like it would be if you bought a 200 unit apartment complex,
your lender would require it but still a really good idea, especially as a syndicator. You want to make sure you're
always clear that distinction between what you do as a syndicator. Finding vetting, structuring, raising capital
communicating. And what you might also do in your real estate business, some of you are in the development
business, some of you are already active landlords, we've got property management companies, right? So those as
long as those are distinct, does it mean you can't do more than one thing, because you can, but you have to be
careful about that. Now within property management specialization for sure, not surprising that MC companies who
today does take some outside management, they didn't for a little period there. But Kenny started in property
management fact, Ken is our guest this coming week, | think maybe goes out today or on our podcast. And he has a
rather large enterprise now. But part of the way it’s gotten biggest, they've acquired management companies, and so
not surprising that the first gentleman they sent you to is kind of an internal person, but still, they have a lot of
affiliations as well. So a manager who manages office is probably not the same manager who manages single family
who's probably not the same manager that manages large multifamily, sometimes single family managers will
manage a townhouse or duplex, but there are different skill sets, different disciplines. So you definitely want someone
that specializes. That's That's the good news you got to a person. Now the first thing I’m going to suggest you do,
there's there's several steps, there's the step of market analysis. So we're gonna spend all the time on that today.
There is the step of property due diligence. Now, those are two different things. But we kind of throw that all under
the due diligence banner at the real estate guys, technically, due diligence is the work you do between contract and
close to decide whether or not you're going to move ahead. So that's really what due diligence is, once we have a
deal, now we're going to go through and make sure the numbers make sense the physicality of property all works.

We understand scope of work and cap x and all that. But we kind of broaden that definition to say, Well, our due
diligence is on the market, as syndicators on this the person doing the deal, whoever that is, if it's a developer,
contractor, or whoever, and then obviously on the property, so you've got market, then you've got the performance
Robert 41:25

okay, if you have a single investor who could be the pathway to doing bigger deals, but kind of wants to have a test
run, do a smaller deal and and he'll fund it and you'll do the work? Correct. Okay. So whether it's a syndication is
going to depend on how you structure it. If he’s totally passive, like, Here's the money and call me when we're done,
then likely that would be a syndication that the the safest way to do it, I'm assuming is accredited. So it doesn't

mean it has to be and you don't if you have one accredited investor in a syndication, check with your legal team, you
don't need a full private placement memorandum. And that's just time and money and cost and reading and all that
stuff. But you didn't need a business plan and executive summary. And you may not set it up that way, you might set
it up as a tenant in common or a joint venture of some kind. So there’s other ways to set it up. But there's, there's
more, there's more to talk about the net. So that’s actually the | think the least interesting thing because it's easy to
figure out if you had to syndicator you could and you just want to make sure you have all the right disclosures and so
forth, those accredited a guy coming in with all the money, you just got to structure it, the more important thing
would in the in whatever it is, however you do it in your agreement, you need to make sure that you have control. He's
putting in the money, you're putting in the expertise and the deal and the development and the background and
you're doing it together, he might have 70% of the return. But you don't want him to have 70% of the vote. And at
some point vote you out his manager. And there's ways to do that. We typically, you know, have let's say in this case,
you'd have you know, A and B class if you're doing it as a syndication. A quick thing that we do and you probably
heard us talk about this the syndication event is if you look at a lot of syndications, almost always management or
the A shares and investors of the B shares. | asked my attorney early on | go, is there any magic to that? Does it
matter? Could | call him D and J, he’s like calm whatever you want, as well, I'd like to put the investors as the A
shares, and have me and my team be the B shares. So just it's it’s subtle, it’s a nuance, but when you tell people that
the B class, they're the B students, and you're the A it just doesn't feel right. So we add our deals always have the aev
shares, that’s the investor and the B is us. But we always provide that even though the A might have 70% of the cash
flow and 60% of the appreciation, the B side has 60% of the votes. So you just want to set that up, but | don't know
that it would necessarily be a syndication. Let's get to the hack question. This is an important one right? The door |
went in, in syndication, too, was a little muddy as well. I'm not a pure syndicator I'm more of a developer and hands
on person. And you know, we've had a couple of big projects that have been the general contractor as well. So it’s all
good, you just have to make a decision as to this partnership you're creating we'll call it that whether it’s a
partnership or not. He's relying on you for certain things, you're relying on him for money and maybe other were with
all balance sheet or qualifying for loans and that kind of stuff, | don't know, but maybe he's gonna have some things
on his side of that Ben Franklin that that he’s bringing, and you got a whole bunch of stuff. Now, that's what you
have to sell. That's why you're interesting to a guy like this, not just for this deal, but for several deals on down the
road. So here's where you really need to get strategic in your thinking. If I'm doing a one off, and | missed the mark,
now | gave up too much of the equity or whatever Oh well, but you're about to set course hopefully with a partner.
going to have a lot of deal flow for a long time and you start to do a really good job for a guy like this, he’s going to
be like, I'll bring my friends when | need to like money won't be your problem, every syndicators dream. So just make
sure that however you set it up at the beginning is something you're willing to live with. And you also want to have
the talk, which is, hey, let's go do this. Let's see how it works out. When we sit down there at the debrief afterwards,
let's just be open and honest to each other about how to how to win. If he goes, man, | was thrilled, it was great. It
was awesome. You say yes. So as | just feel it was quite fair on the compensation, the next one | like to promote, you
know, per se, we do this, propose a different arrangement. You don't have to do that. But if if it turned out to go that
way, on the other hand, it might be the other way around. So agreeing in advance to talk about that stuff later, is just
really good communication. So tell me a little bit about your background, what you've done.

Craig Kamman 45:54

I've done development before I've raised with partners, capital, we've done condom condominium projects, done
some classy office, | time, the market back in 2007, where | was sitting on three condo, condominium buildings as the
whole market crash. So that that’s been my background, I'm kind of getting back into that side of the business.
During the downturn, | built a small portfolio of rental properties and management. So
Robert 46:21

okay, great. So that’s a great rounded experience, resume, even the ugly stuff. That's great. So we've talked about the
seminar, if all you've ever done is had winners, then I'll wait till you get a little more seasoned, and then I'll invest with
you, right? So the fact that some things didn't go well, that can be super, super great learning, but also it just builds
your, your Moxie and your credibility. So the question you have to figure out is, you know, I've already mentioned
we're bringing on a general contractor, great. Who else do you need to bring on what team were there holes in the
team, and were the things you think you can handle and you're going to this is it, this is an exercise for you and
everyone who has a deal to think through, hey, there's things I'm really good at, these are the things I'm going to do
on my syndication company. And these are things that | could do, but I'm not going to so you know, my door into real
estate development. And syndication was through sales of as a real estate salesperson for 18 years. And property
management was an on site residential apartment manager. So I've been in the trenches on management and sold a
whole bunch of investment properties and houses and land and all kinds of stuff. But | know nothing about
accounting. I'm not very good with construction, which is crazy, considering I've developed millions of square feet,
but | don't know much about construction. So when | set out to craft one, this is going to look like if it had to rely on
me looking at blueprints and construction drawings, there was a problem, right? | need somebody in that position, if
you have that skill set, and that can be a huge value add if you can sit with a client and go over the MEPs and know
what everything is and explain it. If they have questions. That's a great skill set. If you don’t have that you figure out
how to get around that | don't have that. So | figure out how to get around that. That's an awesome question. Let's
get our engineer in here and find out the answer, right. So there’s ways to do it. But you don't want to wear too many
hats. At the same time, in a deal like this, he’s Betting on you. So you need to have enough control. | don’t mean just
voting control, | mean of all the elements of the deal, that you get to shine, and you get to show the areas that you're
great. And this is why it's important, you don't take on stuff that you could do, but aren't great at find people to do
that, right, you could probably get licensed if you aren't already and figure out how to be your own general
contractor. But as a syndicator, just like we were talking about before with Scott as a syndicator. There are definitely
advantages to keeping some arm's length professional protocols in place. You know, I've painted a lot of apartments.
But when we come when it comes time for us to paint these units, I'm not getting out the paint brush, where we've
got a great painting contractor that has awesome references and lots of successful, you know, jobs and that's who
we're going to use. And you can afford to do that when you syndicate you can hire the best. So | think | love the idea
of doing a smaller deal something to test the water. | like that it’s in your wheelhouse. It's townhouses and you've
built the similar product and understand it, it's not going to have a crazy out of hand Hoa so you're not gonna have
probably those kind of issues. And this is a chance for you to test your mettle. And for you to prove kind of this is
what a model could look like. You just have to take that one extra step and think beyond what would deal to and
deal three look like and are you setting unrealistic expectations? Are you biting off more than you should be
chewing? That kind of stuff? Does that make sense? Well,

Craig Kamman 49:43

yeah, what is the value of the syndicator? | mean, what is a fair, fair cut of the deal?

Robert 49:49

Excellent question. This is the age old syndicators question like how do we split the pie? And you're probably gonna
know already The answer is it depends but I'll give you a little more clarity than that. Money is ubiquitous and it’s
everywhere. So money's worth something, you can't do a deal without money. But all money's the same, every dollar
is the same as every other dollar, sometimes more expensive to get. But the money's easy. What's hard, what's rare,
what's valuable, our relationships with people that can bring you deals, or that help you find deals, and being able to
Ask the Mentor Q&A Call on Deals and Deal
Structure with Rob...

@ Fri,10/8 1:45PM @© 1:13:31

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

deal, syndication, tenant, property, rent, people, lease, investors, buying, syndicating, question, building, market, paid, houses,

money, seller, syndicator, business, big

SPEAKERS

Robert, Scott Florida, Alex Petkas, Craig Kamman

© Robert 00:16

All right, everybody. Well hello, and welcome to Ask the mentors deals in deal structure for November 2020. It's
actually our first guy asked him for his call on deals and deal structure. And thanks to several of our live participants,
they've submitted some questions. So we'll start with those. And we'll see where it goes. Since this is our first call, you
know, we regularly do ask the mentors on sales and marketing and business practices in different areas. The idea of
the deals is to specifically bring an active deal, candidate, you have your eye on something that you've bumped up
against, as you're stuck on a deal. And we'll play through that. So best if you can be on the call live. Otherwise, if you
just ask a question, you've probably experienced this with us on Ask the guys on the radio show, we often have to say,
Well, you didn't tell us this, you didn't tell us that we don't know this will make some assumptions. So rather than
make assumptions, we'll be able to, you know, ask some questions. So for today, for those of you on live, what we'll
do is make sure when | call you, you have your camera on and your microphone on. So that way, you can kind of give
us the synopsis which you're looking to figure out, we'll do a little back and forth, I'll give you some input will solicit
input from the crowd as well, because sometimes some of the best ideas don't just come from the mentors, but from
the mentees, for people that have been through different business practices, and so forth. So expecting to find some
really great stuff today. So with that aside, and welcome to those of you watching the recording, because you can
always learn from this kind of stuff. Let's go ahead and jump into our our first question or series of questions, | guess.
And let's say hi to Scott, Florida Scott, you're up number one, why don't you tell us about the deal you're looking at
and what you're interested in finding out.

&) Scott Florida 02:08

Okay, well, thanks for doing this, this is exciting to be able to put some of this on the table and get some feedback on
it. So thank you very much. Um, so | found what happened was | kind of got into the syndication piece after going to
the syndication seminar. And then | thought, | don't know if I'm ready for the membership yet. And so went to the
next level of just figuring Well, I'll ask somebody to find out if there’s a deal out there. And so | contacted somebody
that I've been working with, he said that he surprised me by letting me know that he knew of a deal in my area in the
area where | was hoping to work with him, which was in Memphis and then that didn't work out. | didn’t get my you
know, my stuff together quick enough. But then there was a, the same guy, the same seller has land in Phoenix, the

Phoenix area | should say, it’s actually in Casa Grande, which is between Tucson and Phoenix. And there's 10 homes,
© Robert 1:03:27

And more than you would think, because when you buy a commercial building that has a 10 year lease, right, you're
stuck. So if I'm buying a restaurant building, and the restaurants been there for 13 years, and they're three years into
their 10 year lease, they got seven years less than left, and another 10 year option, | got to vet that tenant. And so for
sure, in that case, | am buying the tenant, I'm buying the building, but I'm buying the tenant if the tenant fails, | still
got the building. That's why | like it better than bonds. But I’ve got to make sure that tenant is solid. So if you have
concerns about the 10 in this case, | think of a residential assisted living like a master lease, because they're taking
care of finding tenants to move the bedrooms, month by month, year by year, you're just renting to them, but they're
running a business. So you have the right in fact, if you're raising the money, you have the obligation to vet them as
an operator, but not uncommon at all because again, it's just the same scenario you're buying the houses, but you're
buying the houses with understanding that it's up and running business with real human beings living there now
being managed by somebody you're not as the landlord able to switch out the manager like you would if you owned
a townhouse and didn't like the property management company. So having said that, | think it's not unfair for you to
have some sort of metrics or requirements or hurdles in the agreement that says under the following circumstances,
the landlord will be able to give notice to the operator. And those would only be extreme things, you know, if they
were, you know, found guilty of a crime Or if they were reported by, you know, the the local board or if their license
wasn't current or right, there's things like that same thing with my restaurant tenant, | have the right to say you have
to pass your health inspections, you have to be paying all your employees, you can't have liens against your chattels,
right, all that kind of thing. So now you said it wasn't as timely. Did you already close on these?

© Alex Petkas 1:05:24

No closing next week?

© Robert 1:05:25

Okay. Do you have any kind of provision that under any circumstances would allow you to move the management
company out?

@ Alex Petkas 1:05:36

Currently No. So I've actually I've spoken with the management and they, you know, I, they are willing ear even the
to, to sign new leases, that | I've convinced them to agree to some kind of risk mitigation clauses like tenant agrees to
abide by such and such legal provisions. I'm not entirely sure that they are they think they are. But but it would
probably at this stage, were assuming that it would have to be after we close because the leases would be signed
with me. And I'm not currently the owner. So | feel like it’s a it's a tricky situation as far as like, how do you? Yeah, like,

like, you can't modify an existing lease. And until you've closed, right,

0 Robert 1:06:30

yeah, this is one of the challenges anytime you have current tenants now if they're month to month tenants or even
annual residential tenants not as big of a deal because you just wait them out. But the issue is, you can make no
adjustments to their lease, you're buying the lease, essentially, that's part of the benefit is you're, I'm guessing getting
more rent from these houses than you would with other uses. So that’s what you want is you want those leases, but

you want to be on your form. So the best you can do is to get a tentative agreement that they'll go ahead and
through and they're you know, whose site is on who's protecting all that stuff. You get to a meeting of the minds with
a letter of intent or memorandum of understanding and now you kind of have a place to go the other thing it does is
let you flush out some of their motivation if they say well gosh, we need to close faster than matter right those kinds
of things and you may be a buyer you may not it’s just generally with syndicators that takes us no matter how long
we're in the business takes us a little longer to get the cash together because we're deployed and you know our
investors got to move money around usually get in deals and all that stuff so you just want kind of an understanding
if they go now if you can't close this in 15 days then we're not interested well why waste any more time Okay, so then
there is there's all that makes sense. Yes. Alright. So then there is the timing in terms of you've got some
documentation to put together and you can't really start you can start your executive summary but you certainly
can't pull the trigger on it until you've done at least some of the due diligence you know, typical due diligence the
original contingency might be a go no go walkthrough, which says once they agree to your price and terms and you
guys volley back and forth counteroffer counter counter, you agree on something now you'll have some period of
time where you get a go no go inspection because these are occupied homes, you're not gonna be able to walk
through them anytime you want. And the sellers not going to want to let you do that unless you know you're serious
but if you're in contract with okay if 10 days to tell us yea or nay that doesn't mean you don't have it. contingencies
to get out. And this isn't a course on on real estate. But hopefully because this is our first one of these, these are
some good ideas for people to build on. So you've got to get to a point where you know what you what you have is
this, is this a real deal or not? And what's it going to look like for you to go do all that work. So there’s some work you
do upfront. That's what you've done. So far, you found a market, you found a seller, you're starting to dig a little
deeper into the rents and so forth. At some point, it comes time to either get in that conversation and have a lead to
a anally, or an MOU or a contract. Now you want to make sure that you've backed into that things like your deposit.
So again, there's there's lots of thinking on this will take us a while to go through, but you just have to decide how
strong you're going to show up. Where's the money going to come from? Is that you? You have one angel investor

who invested everything you do is gonna put up the money and what how much money to put up. You know,
beginning investors put down $1,000 on a ona million dollar house, right and seasoned investors put down 200,000
200,000 Yeah, because it shows strength and it shows your real and you put it right in escrow and it's it gets their
attention. quick aside, I've gotten more deals by coming in really strong with a totally refundable deposit, then the
next guy, because it just looks strong. | had a guy who had a bunch of offers coming in and wanted to know how real
we were and I'm with my broker and he goes well, he wants some proof of funds. So | literally were a block away from
my bank, | pull into the blank bank with my card, pick up put the thing of brand a balance on the lady m sheet of
yours the balance my account more than the price of the property, though, you're welcome to take a picture of that
or send that to the seller. And I'll give them more formal but that’s we're like we're a player like we can make this
happen. Now. We weren't | wasn't going to pay out of my account for the house. But | was showing them this a house
that need to be torn down and build other stuff. But | was showing them we had the wherewithal. So that that’s part
of looking strong. And frankly, having a broker can help when your broker goes in and says, Oh my gosh, let me tell
you about Scott, great guy solid, right? He can say that in a way that you can let me tell you about how great | am
right but then again, the bank statements pretty strong too. Okay, so then at some point, you've got to decide if he
comes back and you said | need 120 days and he goes well we'd really want to close them 30 and he goes well | can't
possibly do so you end up in 45 day clothes. Alright, then the fundamental question is can you get everything
together you need in 45 days, which means you've got to do the go no go you've got to have inspections done.
You've got to have your executive summary going your private placement you've got to start talking to people and
raise the money so you can see that 45 days goes by pretty fast it’s not uncommon for syndicators especially to get
to their close date and not have all the money they have promises for all the money but they don't have all the
money so just a new syndicators trick make sure you always get more commitments then you need and make sure
you don't go in any stronger than you can you know back up so it may be that the answer is | couldn't do it in 45
days | couldn't even do it in 60 days okay well then this is not a deal for you perfectly fine right? Other times we're
gonna find in the next coming years sellers that need to sell I'm in negotiation right now with a seller who's had a
property in the market for two and a half years so guess what, guess who has the upper hand in that negotiation?
Just knowing what you know doesn't matter what market is in or what kind of property it has been on the market for
two and a half years What do you already know about it it’s overpriced total price that's that’s it there’s only one

thing that sells property that’s price any property no matter how ugly or hideous any property at the right price will
put all the pieces together, right? The metaphor we use for the syndication, our whole program is the puzzle, because
it is a puzzle, you're putting together different pieces. If you're coming along, and you're a syndicator, like Dave zoek,
and you go find other operators, they're building, finding sourcing, contracting ATM machines, they've got a team
finding locations, etc, you're just raising money that's worth less than if you're the person who is doing all those
things. And you can that company, the Dave affiliates with, they could have decided to go raise the money, but
they're not good at that. They're going to do what they do, which is why it’s a great partnership. So when they sat
down to negotiate, Hey, who's gonna do what? And who gets paid for it? It's kind of a, you know, that's kind of what
they had to go through is okay, what would it be worth? And is that? Is that worth it for me? So that’s what you need
to kind of outline. So we like the Ben Franklin. Right? The Ben Franklin is other sheet paper with the thing down the
side. And the top is usually it's yes or no reasons to do a reason to not this is alteration to the brand, Frank. And when
you say, here’s what they're bringing to the party, here's what we're in the party wrestling, | had a business venture
with a guy who's that is in his office and said, All right, let's figure out what everybody's doing. And draws it on the
board and says, Okay, here's me, and I'm going to do this, and here's you, and you're going to do this, but let’s talk
about everything else has to be done, who's gonna do this? You were me, you Okay, we're gonna do that, who's

gonna do this, you remember, we just did in the whole list. And we looked at check marks, and he had a lot more
check marks in his column that we had in ours. So he said, Well, | want to do this deal with you guys. You guys bring
a lot. | couldn't do it without you. But I'm bringing all of the capital and the business structure and I'm bringing a lot
to what do you guys think would be fair? Brilliant question. We're looking at the board looking at our three check
marks and his 18 check mark going? Well, in my mind, I'm making 18 5050. Right? And it wasn't. And so | think Russ
threw out there, you know, well, what do you think about, you know, 6040, or whatever. And he was great. He cut to
the chase, because | just tell you guys, I've been doing this a long time. I'm kind of a 7030 guy. That's just what works
for me. | could look at this. And | could justify at 515. But I'm good with 7030 if you are. Okay, that's how we figured it
out. And that's what we went with. And it was fair. So what is fair, it’s in the eye of the beholder. Many people that
have money think that they have the most important thing, but I'm here to tell you, they absolutely do not because
money left to its own devices goes down in value over time without a vehicle without a slave driver, the person who's
not slave slave driver, the person who's running the thing and managing it and finding and vetting and putting the
partnerships together, nothing happens. So typically, however, what you're going to look at, if | was going to look at
what this would do this this complex, we'll call it of 10 townhomes, once it was built. And once they were ran into
today's values, and once you figured out cost, so land and building and a decent profit margin for a builder. So that's
not even we're not even to partnership or syndication yet. Once | figure that out, it’s okay, here's what the return is.
Now | can see how rich it can be one way or the other. If it was just you and all your own money and it produced an
11% return, you go Okay, well, it's six and a half enough, we just split it right down the middle, maybe not. Because on
his own, he could find deals at my pay eight. So you might say 6040 or 7525. And no matter what that number is, no
matter what that split is because there's other ways to do it, waterfalls, preferred returns, etc. But no matter what it
is, in your particular scenario, since you've got a guy who wants to do one small deal Mingo you want to say hey, why
don't we try the first one like this. And then when we're all done, we'll sit down, you know, over a beer and we'll just
talk through it and say, Hey, what's fair? Does that seem fair and want to keep growing this way do we need to make
any adjustments that protects both of you, but | just like the way that feels. And it shows that your concern for him
but it also is opening the door so you don't get to the next deal. And you feel like gosh, this is not fair to me. And he's
like well, our deal 7525 or whatever it is. So you have to look at what all those things are valued. So let's talk about
what the value is. If you're qualifying for a loan, that has value if you are a personal guarantee and a loan that has
value, I've done deals in the past where I've gotten paid a little bit more just because | would personally guaranteeing
the loan or I've given up a little bit more because somebody else would. So that's worth something. Your experience
resume is worth something but you can't put a big number on it because you wouldn't be in the conversation. If there
wasn't that It's worth something and it’s going to be worth a chunk of the of the deal. But it's kind of hard to quantify.
It's always the compared to what if you are paying out preferred return? So the investor might say, well, | need to get
5%. You know, before anybody gets any money, okay, well, then the return after 5% is gonna look different than it
would if it was just a straight split. So it really takes some soul searching. One of my favorite things to do if you've
also got this question is to look at a lot of deals, look at a lot of different deals that are people are doing not just
deals exactly like yours, but all kinds of deals. And you start to get kind of a, an essence of feel a gut about what is

fair in splitting the pot. There's always a fair way we had a guy who was in our early the very first version of our inner
chime in on this. Do you have an opinion about this? Anybody who's on the call? Does $150,000 house that rents at
$800 a month makes sense. And if you if you want to say something, just turn your camera on unmute and start
talking.

Craig Kamman_ 33:49
That seems a little bit high price for 800 a month. Greg, | would agree that 1450

Robert 33:55

Yep. Okay, so rather than take a poll, thank you for that, Greg. | wanted someone else to come in and say that, and
it's true, right? We probably heard the 1% rule. And by the way, the 1% rule is not a rule. But it’s kind of a guideline,
and it's a way to interpret what we call gross rent multiplier. So gross rent multipliers, kinda like a P e ratio and a
stock a grocer multiplier says that the value of the rent, though, you know, this is going to be some multiple of the
whole property. And they're different everywhere. It’s not a very sophisticated way to look at properties. We're going
to look as syndicators in noi and cap rate. So hopefully everyone understands noi and cap rate, but in this case, the
1% rule would say well $150,000 house on a rent for somewhere around 15 $100 and 1,000,005 property or properties
ought to be bringing in 1% $15,000 a month not 8000 so just at the very first go or no go looks a little lit now now.
They're saying it's more like 10,000 something, okay, if that were true, that makes it a little better. But remember,
cash flows only one aspect, if we learn these are all great houses that have you know that their market values more
like 175 or 190, if we learn they're in the path of progress, and that there is huge demand for the rentals, people
standing in line, right. So there’s other factors, but just at the first cut, you've got to have this is your kind of an initial
financial analysis of the property is, if it's all running, if we're going to take in $10,000, take off 6% pay the property
manager, that's gonna leave us with you know, effective rents that we have some margin for vacancy factor, because
they're not all going to be full all the time. And then we're gonna have our normal expenses, whatever, you know,
utilities and single family houses, maybe all paid by the tenants, is there any landscaping and that kind of stuff, what
are the property taxes and insurance, those usually big bites, so you want to figure all that out, and then you get to
your net, the what's everything but your debt service, and then we divide that by the price, it gives you your cap rate.
So net, operating income is all the income less the expenses, not counting debt service, and personal expenses, like
entity formation and syndication fees, promotes and so forth. And then that gives you kind of your target return. And
from there, you build your your cash on cash model, because unless you're buying it for cash, if you're getting a loan,
you're gonna have all kinds of leverage, and so forth. So if you're new to all that, we'll be doing some of those in in
some of these future calls. But that's the first the first thing and then once you get to the point, while the financial
analysis of it all, if it all comes out, like they say, Yes, we could raise the rents, and yes, the durability is strong, and
there's a lot of upside to these houses, then you have to match that performance with whatever your strategy is. So
my strategy could be, we're going to buy these things and flip out of the minute that XYZ company moves in and the
rents go up, or, hey, there's a big demand for people to buy owner occupied houses here. And | think we get a better
price for them by owners. And that’s enough to make a return, or we're going to hang on to these for 20 years, and
just throw off cash, that you have to decide that you match the property with the hold period to come up with some
sort of offering to your investors to say, hey, you're going to put in 50 or 100 grand, here's what you're gonna get,
we're going to have an asset that’s real, it's going to be well protected, it’s not going to be over leveraged, the
numbers are going to work. And here's why. And then over the lifetime of the thing, we expect it to go up in value.
And we expect our IRR internal rate of return what the real estate guys called total return to be x. And then people
either say yes or no, you've got to feel like the deal smells good before you take it to somebody else. At least in
theory, I'm a big fan of getting to a certain point in the transaction, especially something I'm not super familiar with.
And then going to some key investors and say, Hey, | got this deal that | just did this with the very deal I'm talking
about yesterday, | talked to one of the guys it’s been around me for 25 years and said, Hey, | want | want to learn
something by and we spent an hour on the phone and | was pleasantly surprised because he’s kind of a tends to be
critical, and a naysayer in a good way. It's why | asked him a lot of stuff. | said, Well, you think he's like, | think it
and the pro forma and a pro forma is simply your best guesstimate as to how the property is going to return. Now
you gave us some points in the curve in terms of what you think the rents are, what they say here are the rents are
and here's what the rents could be. So we'll talk about that. And then ultimately, it's the physicality of the property
What are you going to do to go to determine whether or not this property actually meets your needs or the needs of
your investors and we'll kind of walk through all that so it's a great first one to work through Scott because there's a
lot of moving parts. So let's talk market first thing market analysis Casa Grande or Casa Grande de is between
Phoenix, a big metal triplex and Tucson smaller, but decent size Metroplex population isn't very big, and what 60,000
people something like that, and that's okay. That's what we might consider a tertiary market. Right. So | would think
of Phoenix as the primary market, Tucson is the secondary market. And this would be a tertiary market. Now, just
some ideology there, the more removed a market is, the harder it generally is to find all the team members that you
need. Not that Casa Grande won't have, you know, construction people and property managers and so on. But the
pickings might be a little more slim than they wouldn't say metro Phoenix, right, you've got a lot more people to deal
with. So that's just one thing to consider. The thing to consider is the veracity, the durability of the rent. And we figure
that out by understanding the market. What are the drivers in the market? Why do people live there? And again, |
don't know the answers to those questions. | don't think I've ever actually been in this town, although I've been in
Phoenix and Tucson and driven back and forth. So maybe, but these are the questions you want to figure out who
are the people that live there? And kind of why do they live there? That doesn’t mean personally, why do they live
there? But are they following jobs? Is it a retirement community? Isn't a bedroom community for the work in Phoenix?
Is it folks that are, you know, at a certain economic socio economic level. So that’s the stuff you got to figure out,
there's some places to start a great website that you're already paying for is bls.gov. That's the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. And it's got a wealth of information. It's not all that user friendly, but it’s gotten a little more so in recent
years. And what | usually look for there when I'm starting at on any market is how well rounded the employment is. Is
that a one horse town where there's just one story, there's a big factory and 90% of people in that factory, where are
in that town work at that factory? Okay, well, that could be good. But it also is a little challenging when you only
have one employer, what if that employer goes out of business, right? On the other hand, if you have a lot of diversity
and employment and industry, not just employment, definitely want to make sure such the one industry town, right.
So and ultimately, as you're looking at single family homes, what you want to know is, is there a line of tenants
waiting to move in when the current tenants leave? So let's take a quick aside and talk about current rents versus
potential rent. | can't remember the time | got into a deal where the landlord or their agent, the current owner didn't
tell me the rents could be higher. That's just kind of what they do. And my question is always well, if they could be

why aren't they? What is the reason that you didn't raise the rents to market now there are some strategic answers.
One of the greatest ways to keep your units full is to keep your rent a little bit below market. If I'm a little bit below
market, my tenants aren't going to move across the way because it's going to be 35 or $50. More. So they're going to
be all things being equal, a little more happy to stay. And if | know that it works for me and my numbers, I'm great
with that. So but but very often, what happens is lazy landlord syndrome. And lazy landlord syndrome is where a
landlord has a piece of property and is performing, they bought it six years ago, they got the loan in place, the rents
have slowly inched up over time the mortgage is getting paid down, it’s all working for them. So they don't have a
big incentive to raise the rent by $40, and have the tenant leave. And I'll have to do turn over and deal with vacancy,

the two most expensive things in buy and hold real estate. So that's what | understand. So it makes sense for Scott.

©) Scott Florida 13:33

Yes, yes, that’s what they say is going on there that they just haven't raised the rent, because it helps them keep the
tenant.

© Robert 13:39

And that's quite possibly true. Your mission, along with this property manager is to vet that and that's simply a
matter of getting with the property manager. And even at early stage, we're having been contracted them this is a
