me say infallible, and, you know, not just Oh, it's sometimes racist. It's been an infallible way to identify markets that
are in a dangerous home price bubble where where you know, right now, | mean, you know, prices have been going
up in Dallas, despite the fact that they were sort of past the, the gigantic increase. | think

© Russ 34:02

you can see right here like right after 2010 you were this red.is above the bars, like that might be a good buying
opportunity. Yeah, it looks like there was all through here. And of course, Robert and | were very active in this market
coming out of 2018. So we remember these days very well. And Dallas was our favorite market and that well, you
know, it'd be a great call and it was always kind of a cash flow market before but then after the 2008 crisis you know,

| remember having this conversation this thing's going to become an equity market and certainly appears to have
happened

@ Ingo 34:35

yeah, yeah. Yeah. And and, and as as the commentary or eltra is that market is moderately overpriced right now. So
it's not a dangerous market. But you can find dangerous markets. In fact, one of the one of the markets is getting to
be in dangerous territory is Boise right now. So and, and the reason that that's important for real estate investors
again, it doesn't mean you can't invest there. It just means that if going to invest anywhere near what | think is the
top of the market, you have to be careful that the return on your investment doesn’t depend on further equity
appreciation. You know, a lot of people go and go into deal thinking, well, the prices keep going up. So, you know, |
don't need someone from the red side, because the the equity side is, is where I'm going to get the big returns, you
know, in markets that are overpriced, according to this definition, that's less likely to happen. So you have to be more
careful about the other the other financial returns you're going to get from that investment.

@) Russ 35:32

So especially in today’s in today's environment, where you can’t count on lower interest rates to save you case, right,
you're not going to be able to fix that problem later with just simply low interest rates. Yeah, probably good.

@ Ingo 35:43

So So these feed charts, though, the one on the left says, This is what this is a measure of the demand for housing
right now. The chart in the middle says this is what the this is a an indicator for demand in the future. And then the
one on the right, says Im, and if by chance you you're in a bubble market, you need to know about it. You aren't that
many bubble markets. So most of the time is this sort of a chart that we're income, the red dots, and the blue bars go

pretty much insane. But you know, you want to be able identify those markets when they happen. So do you know
that you need to be more careful?

@ Russ 36:18

Really interesting, | have a question for you and go on the home price change on the red side, you say it's a reflection

of demand, but price changes is going to be a reflection of supply and demand. Well, yeah, relationship between the
two? How does how does supply fit into this charter? dial?
And it is also a lot more useful for doing the compared to what and really monitoring those changes, year over year,
month over month, from Market to Market. So that's that. And then she asked his follow up question, how are these
reports compared to other large real estate data providers? Now? In go, | know you provide data to other places,
bigger institutions and whatnot. Do you can you give us a little insight and maybe how this this Yeah, type of data
report? Yeah, yeah,

Ingo 50:46

yeah, we Yeah, we have, we have other products that, as | said, we have a 15 page report, if you want it, that is
primarily for our institutional customers. But these reports, were written specifically we said, you know, there's a lot of
information in there. And if you're an investor, you don't want all that information. So you know, what is it that |
would make? That would make this infant the only information we have? What, what's the most important to
investors? Or what | think should be the most important to investors? And, and how can we show that most clearly, so
you don't have to spend a lot of time analyzing stuff? You can you can look at this. And if, you know, once, once you
look at a few different markets, it's you look at one report. Yeah, it's sort of interesting, but it’s when you look at a few
other markets, then you can see, then you really see very quickly how markets are changing. And, and, and how, how
one market compares to another, you know, those those, you know, these, these, these these two charts here, but in
terms of the economics, the three charts on the first page, you know, when | look when | when | pick up a report,
those are the first few things | look at, and and once you get used to it, it you know, bingo, | can tell you right away
where this market is, economically,

Russ 52:05

| love this part right here. This part's fantastic. | mean, it's,

Ingo 52:10

there's, we, we, as | said, we started writing or trying to design a report like this, maybe | don’t know, maybe two years
ago, and there was too much stuff in it, it was it was like five pages and all stuff that | thought was interesting, but
you know, someone else's point of view, but by playing out from an investor's point of view, so the one thing you don't
want to do is give people information that's not useful. So we've pared it down and pared it down. And then, you
know, we started talking with you, that's really when we talked about that second page, where we said, well, you
know, you know, the pandemic is gonna have effects. So, you know, how can we show that so, you know, talking to
talking, talking to people and, and finding out what's, what's useful and what's not useful, | think we've honed in on,
you know, he certainly didn't want it more than a two page report, because who needs more than if you can't tell the
story in two pages, you know, you're not going to tell the story at all. So that's sort of so the evolution. And in my, in
my opinion, the shorter, the better. And if you're a good analyst, you can present in a lot of information in a few
pictures, that makes it easy, easy to first of all, see what's going on. And then and, as importantly, allow you to easily
compare mark one market. And so you know, you're not, you don't see lots of tables in here, you see some numbers,
and you see a few charts, and you see some commentary of what we think the data mean. But other than that, you
know, the fewer numbers have been allowed to hate numbers. And that's why that's why we ended up putting we at
the top. | just, if you hate numbers, here's just, you know, our conclusion, you know, the returns are gonna be pretty

good. And there's not much, not much risk. Maybe that's all you want to know.

Russ 53:52

Yeah, our friend, Robert Kiyosaki, when he wrote his book, | believe it was fake, he was bragging about how he filled it
up with just a lot of charts and pictures, because he felt like it was a better way to communicate. So | really
appreciate the fact that you allowed us to have some input, that you were able to kind of tweak your stuff a little bit
to make it be a little bit more along the lines of what we thought our audience would like. And of course, we're going
to be very interested in the feedback that everybody has, and will continue to bring that and we'll continue to tweak
the offering to make it as relevant as possible, because our motto at the real estate guys has been forever education
for effective action. We don't want to give people more than they need, but we want to give them what they need
and a direct path to be able to act out on it. So we're at the top of the hour. I'm going to stop the share here. And I'm
going to just one of the questions that came up was just the pricing schedule. And so Ingo, you don't need to answer
that because we have that but we presented that at the last meetup. And so | think Robert has those slides ready to
go and we'll just explain to the people the offering that we have created for our audience, which | think is a very
attractive one. So, Robert, you're ready to go.

Robert 55:01

Yeah. So some of you, if you were at the meetup, this might be redundant to you. But for those of you that weren't, or
for those of you watching the recording sometime after this, we've had this on our plate for a long time and met Ingo
quite a number of years ago. And I've been working on this, and then COVID hit. And finally, it's all come together,
we're super excited about it, pretty soon, it'll be the full lunch, and you'll be able to learn about the various reports.
But the whole premise of this is that these are curated point, bullet point, reports that come out every month in the
markets that matter to you. Now, to start with, we had to pick some markets. So the initial 12 markets of the market,
you see here, these are markets that the real estate guys have been involved in many of them, we've got a lot of our
listeners and investors involved in these markets. These are not the only markets. And we understand that. And our
plan will be to continuously add markets, at least a couple of markets a month. So this is going to grow pretty
rapidly. But to start with, these are all some pretty strong marketplaces. So you're going to have a buffet of markets
to choose from, and how you order your reports and which reports you get are going to depend on us some of you're
going to want the whole enchilada. But for most of us, we don't work in a dozen markets, we work in two or three or
four markets. And then you might add a couple of compared to what are a couple markets that you have your eye
on, you know, if you decide, hey, I'm looking at this region, or I'm looking at this product type. And again, we talked to
the fact that the data is mostly single family, like most of the data we hear in the news about real estate is housing.
But it can be very instructive when it comes to all types. So that's the initial markets. And then beyond that, we'll be
adding those price wise, it works like this, you can order any single report for $97, you can just instantly order that
report for the most recent period, pretty easy to understand that or if you want to order six individual market reports.
So the first one is just a market, you want to go to six markets, it's just $197. If you wanted to get those markets for a
monthly subscription, then you can look at monthly subscription, that's $297 annually. And or if you wanted to get in
this case, six markets reported every single month, then that's about $500 a year. So that's the pricing and the

pricing will be available on the website. I'm not sure if it is yet, we haven't know what

Russ 57:36

we're going to do is we'll send a link out to the mentoring club with a link to this recording. And then also a link to be
able to place your orders. And again, like we said, we we've tested at all we think it all works as far as delivering
having you be able to come in pick what you want, order the market you want and get the deliveries, it all checks
out. But we thought we would do a soft launch before we took it to our main audience. And so you guys are the
guinea pigs you get first shot at it. Any feedback, you have good, bad or ugly, we definitely want to have just
wrapped that through membership. And it'll get to Robert and | and we'll make whatever adjustments are necessary.
So be looking forward to that. Anything else? Robert, from your perspective,

Pe LL raAAN
And so in many cases, you'll find that you know, in this particular market, no, can we can we scroll scroll down a little
bit for us. Yep. So we can actually see down at the bottom here the prices and rents and those particularly this price,
this this this ratio of the ratio of the average home price in this market to the average annual rent. And this is a this is
a way to get at how much overlap there is between the homeowner market and the rental market. And in particular
to say well, is the is the home owner market a lot more expensive than the rental market. So up here, so we talked
about the investment options in Dallas, the market is overpriced, we'll get to that in a second. But the home price to
rent ratio is low enough to allow straight single family rentals. Now in any market, you're going to have an overlap
between the home buyer market and the rental market. And in this particular important, of course, if you're an
investor who's thinking of buying a home and renting it out as is. And then in this particular market, even though it's
a fairly pricey market, you can still do that, because the rents tend to be fairly high. And see down here home prices
to be at 1000. The average monthly rent is relatively high this ratio of 20s to server, | suppose the ratio is and and
there’s some rules of thumb that I've developed, which says that if the ratio is over 22, then it says the market is
relatively expensive. Versus rents. If the ratio is below 16. It's the other way around any case, whatever the particular
ratio may be, this is my interpretation of what all the factors mean for the investment options. Good home price
forecasts, which you see down here. That's our forecast for home prices over the next three years. And our forecast
for rents over the next over the next three years. So based on on the numbers, and then we'll talk a little bit about
this stuff here too. This is this is kind of our conclusion of what we think are the best options Because home prices are
moving very quickly in this market going up very quickly, you shouldn't sit around in the sidelines for a long time
deciding what to do. But in this case, in this particular market, there are a lot of options for investors a lot, a lot of
things you can do.

Russ 20:13

So so in go if I'm, if I'm looking at this correctly, and, Robert, feel free to chime in here. And | think if we actually have
some folks on the call, who like to ask a question, too, we can probably do that. But what I'm looking at down here,
kind of on this summary at the bottom, is that this Dallas Plano market is above average in price above average in
rents. And the ratio being higher than average, is that good or bad? Does that mean that cash flows better or worse?
Is that what that's about?

Ingo 20:44

Well, that really rested, it really means that that in a in a, let's say, let's say this ratio were 25. As | think in San
Francisco, it’s around 35 or so right? Now, if the ratio is very high, basically means you can't, you can’t go out and buy
an average home and rent it out as is because very, very few people will be able to afford the rent that you need.
Gotcha. So the higher number,

Russ 21:09

a higher number is harder to higher number

Ingo 21:11

mean, just this means it's more expensive. Now, that doesn't mean you can't invest there, it just means that in my
opinion, you have to invest differently. So if the if the ratio is higher, the market is more expensive. Versus renders
that means you're probably better off investing in apartments, you know, or buying a home subdividing it into several

several investment units.
Russ 25:51

well, even though the chart is, you know, all negative numbers after that first quarter and or first month in 2020, the
trend line is up, right, it's got to crack the surface and get but | mean, if you say well, okay, so you know, the the
whole economy came to a screeching halt, and you can pretty clearly see that that happened. But then you can also
see that the trend line has basically been up. And | think that anybody paying attention, you know, in this particular
case, because we're talking about Dallas, which is located in Texas, and you look at the way Texas has handled the
pandemic versus some other places, you know, and that's another thing again, that's changed the whole narrative
for everybody trying to interpret what the heck's going on, because this is where real estate really is unique. Because
the policies that we've always looked at low tax friendly to business that attract people, those are all really
exaggerated right now. And the people that are doing it wrong, their problems are exacerbated, but the people are
doing it right, are really attracting more than their unfair share. And I'd say Texas, Florida is probably on that list.
Whereas California is maybe in Illinois, you know, or maybe on the other end of that spectrum.

Ingo 27:02

Yeah, yeah, there's their their new population, KIPP new population data came out just from the past month. And you
can see over the last three or five years, that the population shift towards Texas, towards Florida continues, and the
population of California, on the other hand has been dropping, the last few years. Now, states go through cycles,
there's that there's a long long cycle of growth in California. And then, you know, at some point, music gets too
expensive. And guess what happens, you know, people move elsewhere. So we're seeing the same kind of thing. Right
now. And, and one of the, one of the really interesting things from a, from an analyst perspective is, you know, how is
how is the pandemic going to change what's going to happen individual markets over the next, just just over the next
couple of years, you know, the, we've already seen that, that some markets have been almost unaffected by the
recession, you know, if you go to Boise, Idaho, or Salt Lake City, it's a sort of one recession. Now, it hasn't been a
recession, and and job growth in those markets is, is is positive already. And then there are other markets, they're
probably going to languish for a long time, because a lot of their jobs, a good chunk of their jobs are not going to be
returning. So you know, we're in a situation right now, that's sort of, in a way difficult for investors, because there's
more uncertainty about what's going to happen. But on the other hand, you know, this, the same thing applies.

When there's uncertainty, there’s opportunity. And if you can sort of figure out which markets are likely to be doing
better than others, you're, you're in a better, better position. So |

Russ 28:46

think you realize, the other thing, too, to just interject and go is that you've got a situation really where you can

compare and contrast.

Ingo 28:55

Yeah. Look at this, this job growth chart for Dec for Dallas. And then if you look at it for a few of the other markets,
then you can really see that some markets, | mean, this this market is this, this, this graph here is really good graph.
compared to many, many of the, you know, we covered 200 markets all together in this fashion. And when you look
at it, there's a gigantic difference. And Dallas is one of the better markets even though even though the jobs have not
recovered yet, if not come back to the level they were at before the pandemic. So, you know, in a way it looks like a
bad market, but it’s actually a good market. That's one of the things that that | think we will we will relatively soon
see a good number of markets back in, in in the black. And that's going to have a lot of good consequences for real
estate investors who are trying to make decisions right now.
Russ 12:56

Well, if you've ever written in an executive summary, and tried to take all of the data that you have accumulated
about a market and distill it down into something concise, that you can present to a decision maker, you're going to
really appreciate the formatting of these reports, which is one of the things that impressed me because | was
thinking these things were going to be these giant, hard to consume pieces of information. And of course, as
somebody who's out there trying to do business, you can't get bogged down in too much information, you just got to
give me the high notes. And help me understand the story that it’s telling. And then | compare that to what I'm
watching in the news and what I'm hearing with my boots on the ground team. And you know, those three data
points all together paint a fairly accurate picture. And then to your point, Robert, each one of these reports which are
issued monthly on each market, you can begin to track just like when you're watching the price for something that
you really want to buy, if you watch it, you know, every day day in and day out after a few weeks of watching pricing,
you recognize when a good deal shows up, you're going to begin to recognize trends. And of course, Ingo lives in all
of these things every day. And so he's going to be in a position to recognize trends. And so it's not just data, but it’s a
little bit of his commentary, you may or may not agree, you may or may not agree with whatever his investment
thesis or approaches, but he is going to be able to point out little nuances in the data that are showing shifts, and
and to Robert's point, because he's doing multiple markets. He's also got a real innate kind of compared to what
going on, and he's going to spot things a lot quicker than we all would. And so we may impose upon him from time
to time to come in and do a special ask of mentors with respect to markets, especially as we get a feel for what the
club is really interested in which markets you're most active in. Or if a market starts to really change. You know, those
of us who've been around any length of time might remember when Detroit at one time was the largest one of the
largest cities in the world and it was the richest city on the planet. And today, it’s been the poster child for the largest
municipal bankruptcy in history and one of the most blighted areas ever. And I'm not saying there’s not opportunity
in Detroit, but anybody watching what was going on in the data would have seen that thing coming a mile away.
And we had a position to reposition themselves either in or out on the right into some of those trends. So with all
that said, Ingo, I'm going to jump into the screen share here real quick, and see if | can figure out it’s going to be this
one, | believe, and boom. All right, if | did that properly, you all should now be looking at the report. Is that correct?
That's okay. So in go, just kind of walk us through this. What I've got up here is kind of page one. And walk us
through what what we're looking at?

Ingo 15:46

Yeah, well, you know, I'm glad you pointed out that, that, you know, one of the things I'm giving you in here is my
interpretation of what's going on. And you know, a lot of this stuff up here. But the more important part really is the
data down here, these are just just, you know, pure, pure data. Now, you know, I'll give you my interpretive, my
interpretation of what the data mean. And the same is true on the second page, which shows some special COVID
related stuff. But the real point here is that when you look at the data, | can try to tell you what | think the data
mean, but you'd have to believe me. And also, as you pointed out, the we've condensed this down, because I'd be
happy to send you a 15 page report on ages markets. But you know, that’s, that's not where most people want,
especially not go to state investments | found. So there, there are three major things on here. For so you can you can
you can get into the data as much as you want to. It is a real easy summary right up here. And, you know, if you just
want to know, Hey, what's going to happen to this market, or what's likely to happen this market? Higher rent is
going to be our home price is going to be and what kind of risk Am | taking, then you can you can you can forget
about all the rest of this, you can just exit out and just look at this, because this is really a summary that says, you
know, here are your expected returns based on rents based on home prices. And then here's the risk you're assuming
by investing in this market. And out now, that's pretty much it. We go from there to my interpretation of what a lot of
the data means, in particular, what kind of investment options | think, are, are best for this particular market based

on to these three factors. how rapidly our home prices grow? How much risk is involved in investing in this market?
ordering or fulfillment process, please please please let us know. So that we can fix it. And then also be aware that
this is going to be out there in the marketplace. And so the last thing you want to do is have less information than
the marketplace. And since this is going to be out there in the marketplace, if your investors have seen this and they
see something that you haven't seen in a market you're operating in, then you're going to look like you're not on your
game. So | think it makes a lot of sense for you on in the markets that you're in and you can cherry pick the markets,
we | think we've identified a dozen markets we're rolling out with our intention is to add a couple of markets every
month. And you all can have definite feedback on that. If there are particular markets you'd like to see, then you let
us know that and then we will work with Ingo to get those markets covered. So Ingo, let me toss it to you. And just if
you can, why don't you give folks a little bit of an idea about your your credential. So a little bit about your
background, why are you qualified to have an opinion? How long have you been doing this? So tell us a little bit

about yourself.

Ingo 03:46

Okay. Yeah, well, as as | was, | was telling Russ before | asked myself that question every day? The the the short
answer is that I'm not quite sure. But I've been doing this for 30 years, | find it fascinating. Just a bit of background, |
have an undergraduate degree from MIT. | have a an MBA in finance from Boston University. | worked in corporate
finance for a while. And then 35 years ago, I'm aging myself, | started to work for a mortgage insurance company,
and really got fascinated by how do you figure out the risk that's involved? Because that's what a mortgage
insurance company does, what's the risk that's involved in, in real estate? And is there any way you can tell
beforehand how much risk you're assuming in the market. And then that led me to start my own business? Because |
found that there was not much analytical expertise available at a time at that time. So | started my own business

and it's essentially been the same business for the last 30 years. We've gotten more sophisticated, and obviously now
everything's online. | used actually publish these, these 200 page books. And my clients by and large for either banks,
mortgage companies and home builders, big home Mills, so be people who want to be able to compare markets.
And as | said, At first | was talking about mainly talk about risk, | saw that, you know, risk is one side, but we what you
really care about is where are the opportunities for investment. So, as time has gone by, first of all, my partner | got
involved in seeing if there's a good way we could, we could forecast what's going to happen with home prices. And
that's, that's a big deal. We do some forecasting of rents as well, that's, that's actually not as difficult because rents
tend to go along with with income in the market, but on price or something different. And, you know, if you follow the
news, you know, just the last couple of days, we found out that home prices, really in the last year, have risen a lot
more. And certainly the | thought, and we made, you know, we can talk about those special circumstances is later if
you want, then and also another part to the to the home price situation. And it’s one of the features that that's in the
report is how can you tell if home prices are getting too high in the market? And, and then all of these things really
boil down to, you know, what does this mean for making an investment? And at first, | thought, well, you know, the
best thing to do is just find some markets that are good markets to invest in and ignore the other markets. Well, you
know, that's nice if you can pick out some nice markets, but it so happens that most people who make an
investment, real estate, you know, they don't have they don't have the liberty to invest in other markets, they happen
to be in their own market, and they want to know, well, given the circumstances in my market, what's the best way to
invest in my market, Now, given given the economic environment, because in some markets, you know, if you're in a
growth market, stating a crash, that you can make mistakes, and you're gonna be saved by the fact that everything
is going to go well in that market. But most markets are short of, you know, sort of in between where you're not
exactly sure. Well, you know, it's not necessarily a growth market, but it’s also not a bad market. And then then also,
the question is, well, you know, what do you do if you're in a bad market? Now, because bad markets tend to be
markets with lots of opportunities, because not a lot of people are investing it. So as as as, as time has gone by our
reports, and the report that you're gonna see is it's specifically designed for real estate investors and, and it in
addition to saying, Well, what kind of market is it in what we've been trying to do? And | think we've been getting
better at this because it's, we've only been doing this for a while and say, Well, in this market, this is probably a, you
know, there's some better strategies than others. And so which strategy is is most appropriate for which particular
markets? So that's sort of that's sort of the background. Let me let me point out, of course, since I've been doing this
@ Ingo 36:34

Yeah, | mean, the reason the reason that there are there are home price bubbles, is that demand always changes
more rapidly than supply. And, and we can talk a little bit about why prices are up in the past year, | happen to think
it's because yeah, there is still demand, but a lot of people didn’t want to sell, you know, so but but generally,
generally, the supply grows rather sooner, the supply grows much more slowly than demand can grow in the market,
because it's basically home builders. And homeowners just can't build that fast. You know, it’s it's not all just some,
everybody decides they're going to sell their home and move out. So, so the supply tends to grow slowly in markets.
Yeah, sounds like it doesn't grow at all, you know, if you if you're in a market, that’s been depressed for a number of
years, you know, if you're in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, you know, there hasn't been any home building there. And for
good reason, we just moved out more housing in the not so you can pick up housing cheap, by the way, you know, it's
a good opportunity for some people and then rent it out, because the prices are low, that home price ratio was down
at 12 or 13. At some point, you know, so that that represents opportunities as well as risk. But it's the demand that
changes, it's when people want to move there, a lot of young people want to move to Dallas, especially young
people, you know, and first they'll rent but then they want to buy a home because, you know, let's say back in 210, the
prices were still below $200,000. Now, that's why people moved there to begin with, because the there were jobs
there, and you could you could buy it buy a home, if you lived in the northeast, at that time, you couldn't, you know,
either have a job or, or or afford to buy a home. So that's, you know, it’s it’s the demand that changes rapidly. That's
that's what changes prices.

© Russ 38:23

Okay, so we actually have a question from one of our members here. So Kyle, why don't you go ahead and unmute
yourself and ask your question, because | think it's a good one. And he's a brand new club member, too. So welcome

to the club. Yeah, we can hear you.

© Kyle 38:38

Thank you. Awesome. Ego. My question is about that far right chart home price versus income price, and specifically
relating to income price, as the element of interest rates rising or dropping, been taken into account for that income

price, or is that just to play that kind of income price statistic?

@ Ingo 38:59

The calculate is a calculation does incorporate changes in interest rates in that price in the sense that the formula
always says, Well, here’s what's happening in this market, versus here's what's happening in the US as a whole. So to
the extent that that interest rates affect home prices as a whole, in the United States, the the interest rates are
figured in there. They're not specifically there's there’s not a specific point in the formula that says, Oh, well, if your
mortgage rates drop below 3%, then this is what's going to happen the income is but it’s but it’s in there because it's
always compared to the national average. So you know, yes, it's in there, but not directly comes in there to the side
door.

© Russ 39:49

Okay, but but it’s taken into consideration as opposed to like net operating income on an apartment, which is pre
any debt. So, okay, that was a great question. Kyle, thank you so much for that. You Ingo, are we ready to move on to
page two?
Ingo 40:02
lam. Yeah, that's okay. This is a good time. All right,

Russ 40:05

let's take a look at page two. Tell us about this page.

Ingo 40:09

Yeah, this is, you know, this is something that that we created earlier this year. And and, you know, largely at your
instigation, really, because we were thinking about, well, you know, what's, how can people figure out what's going on
with a pandemic, having large changes in different markets. So there are two charts on here. And one of them, the
top one shows the structure, the job structure in a put belt, in this particular market in 12345678, in eight job
categories of jobs in construction, and for example, in this particular case, look at business services, the blue is the is
the actual market, the red is what's what the national averages. So in this case, you know, almost 20% of the jobs in
Dallas, are in business services and business services are out there, lawyers, accountants, people, the more the line,
any any anything a business needs in order to operate. That's what the business services. So. So in this now, and you
can see, and in the other you can see finance is a fairly large sector, compared to the national average. You know, on
the other hand, the the healthcare and government sectors are smaller than average, | guess that's fairly common in
Texas. So and why is this important? It’s important because the pandemic probably is going to have some
permanent consequences. And because some jobs are going to be more vulnerable to being permanently lost in
some markets, and other markets, those those right now those, ironically, because it's, it's been so helpful to
everybody, during the pandemic, jobs in healthcare, probably know, are going to be lost. And it’s largely because
hospitals have lost huge amounts of money, they need to make up for it. They'll be they're going to be cutting, they're
going to be cutting staff, you know, unfortunately, the tourism and restaurant businesses, first of all, they hit very
hard, but probably they're going to they're going to the jobs and those visits are not going to come back, which is
which is enormously important for rental investors, because people who work in those particular interest, especially,
are renters, also in the healthcare field, they're renters, and probably going to be job loss, current job loss and
government for the same reason that that hospitals are losing jobs, because local governments, you know, they, they
can't raise prices, and they can't borrow money. So you know, your budget is what it is. And if you want to if your
budgets and cut, then you're going to be you're going to be cutting people. So certain certain industries, job sectors
are more vulnerable. You know, and in this call, you can see my little commentary, the there gonna be hospitals,
colleges, governments are facing financial pressures. But there are a few of those jobs in in Dallas, and therefore,
there probably aren't going to be large cuts in in jobs, permanent, permanent cuts, when | say permanent, | mean,
over the next few years, nothing's permanent. But it’s a way for us to see, first of all, what's important in this
particular market. And so you can make your own assessments. Well, you know, we think business services are going
to come back or something more manufacturing in Dallas, but but most importantly, to try to identify which jobs are
most vulnerable. And therefore, where is future demand going to be higher or lower than we would normally expect it
to be because of the effects of the pandemic. The second, the second chart really just shows no, in the latest month,
how our job is doing. And you can see that in the tourism and restaurant sector. The green again is the Dallas, the
Orange Is The national average. So you can see that in most of these sectors, Dallas is doing better than average.
And in particular, can finance which is such an important part of the Dallas market. And in business services, you're
almost back to zero. and and you know that's a that's a really good sign for how rapidly markets are likely to re
emerge from the pandemic and how strong how strong demand is going to be for real estate in those particular
markets. So there's an easy way to see, first of all, what makes this market tick. And secondly, as well, you know,
where are we right now. So You know, | look at these a lot, because I’m an analyst, I'm trying to figure out which
Ask the Mentors Q&A on Market Analysis with Robert
Helms, Ru...

@ Thu, 9/23 11:29AM @ 59:43

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

market, reports, jobs, ingo, rents, prices, people, home, pandemic, dallas, data, business, robert, investors, chart, page, investing,

point, risk, important

SPEAKERS

Russ, Robert, Ingo, Kyle

Russ 00:16

destress here with Robert and we are doing a special session now on these new Metro market monitor reports that
the real estate guys have created with the help of market analyst Ingo Windsor, who is going to be our guest for this
special edition of Ask the mentors and the purpose here today is to really just have Ingo, take us through a sample
report and explain to us what's in it, how it works, where the data comes from. And and then we'll talk a little bit
about how you can use it both in creating, you know, a part of your due diligence folder, and how do you paper your
file and say that you've done your homework on a market, obviously, more important than that is how do you
actually use it to decide if the market you're operating is has the essential drivers that you need it to have in order for
it to be a good market for whatever your investment thesis is. And then And then also, you know, you may even want
to present it in some of your offerings and make it part of your marketing. So paper in your file. It's, it's, it's doing the
marketing, and it’s also the idea that you're going to be able to use it in in doing your own due diligence. So, Ingo, I'm
gonna, well, first of all, Robert, do you have anything you want to say in opening? Well, just

Robert 01:38

one thing for the recording, that is, if you'll put your mics on mute, that would be awesome. And then if we get to a
point where those q&a, you can unmute yourself. And then the second part is just | think everybody who is on live
was at our inner circle, and SMC meetup. And you heard about this announcement. But for those who are watching
the recording, that haven't heard yet, we're very excited about this, we're kicking out this program will be super
helpful for folks. So we're excited to, to learn more.

Russ 02:14

Yeah, and the thing, the thing to be aware of, we're going to be rolling this out to our general audience. So this is
really your guinea pigs, this is a soft launch. And we want to make sure that if you decide to take advantage of this,
and it's an additional service to the club, you by the reports, and we'll send you as a follow up to that, what that all
looks like we talked about it earlier. So we don't want to spend time doing that here, we really want to get into the
meat of how to use the reports. But if you if you experience any glitches, or hang ups or anything at all, in the
wy KODerU 96°16

no, just appreciating those time today and all the work he’s put in under the hood, if you will to get these down. It's
just like speaking, it’s easier to give an hour long talk than it is an eight minute talk. It’s easier to end the day with 30
pages of just raw data than it is to distill it down to a format like this. So again, don't look at this view, you know,
through your analytical left brain eyes. Look at this through the eye of your investor. If you're in a market you want to

present an update on the market monthly as a way to keep them involved. This is a pretty good way to do it.

© Russ 58:52

Yep. Okay, so we'll call that a wrap Ladies and Gentlemen, thank you so much Ingo for giving us your great time and
insight | think it helps people know how to use these things more effectively we will have this be part of our platform
sO New members when they come on we'll be able to be aware of this offering and see how it works and Ingo we
may invite you back from time to time to add additional clarity You're always welcome you let us know when you

think you have something interesting for everybody to share. And and we can do that too. So thanks everybody, and
we will see you on the next ask the mentors. Call
© Russ 21:35

Okay, so on the three year forecast, again, US average being 13%. So you're projecting rising prices in the US, but you
are projecting here in this case that Dallas is going to outperform? That's right. Okay. And ditto for the rents, data for
the rents, and | think, particularly interesting on the rents of the US average is going to grow by nine and Dallas is
projected to grow at 17. That's almost double.

GC) Ingo 22:00

Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, the, the, let me just talk a little bit about what the forecasting methods, we use the our
own price forecast quite, you know, | can send you stuff about the home price index, they've been very, very accurate.
Over, you know, in the pandemic, who knows, you know, after the pandemic, who knows, the whole, the whole thing
could could be in different shape, but they've been, they've been very good. feet, as | say, in the red forecasting
business, there's, there's less stuff to go by, because there's just less data on on on rents, because you only get a once
a year, you know, on prices, you can get quarterly, some home prices, you can get monthly, rents are more difficult.
On the other hand, rents tend to go very, very closely along with increases in income. So for one of the let's, let's look
at the second paragraph. And particularly over here, where it says in the last three years, total income grew 21%. in
Dallas, versus 15%. United States, rents tend to rise along with total income. So that’s why, you know, our forecast
says that the rents probably will continue to rise at about at an above average rate in Dallas. The I've lost my place if

0o Russ 23:26

you were you were doing the economy home prices rose 13% 5%.

G@) Ingo 23:30

Yeah, yeah. But you might want to just look at this this second, this second paragraph, he goes, a few more details
that did you won't see elsewhere. Obviously, growth has been high. That's not too surprising, because it features
important banking and banking services sectors. How much home prices have risen in the past year. And then you
know, what percent of housing is rented? And also, a conclusion on the market is moderately overpriced right now.
And | don't know if you want to talk about that right now. But that’s, that's, maybe we should just just jump down to
these these three charts here. Okay. | know, just talking about the risk paragraph, this paragraph right now is
probably not as useful as it normally is. Because the pandemic has just shifted everything over the past year. Yeah,
we give you some data where unemployment is what we think the risk of per job losses in this particular market is
which we'll talk more about on the second page. But a lot of stuff here sort of boilerplate renders are more affected
by the pandemic and stuff that’s that’s normally we give you some more details on why we think the risk is higher or
lower, but the pandemic is sort of superseded all that stuff. A lot of a lot of our assessment of risk normally has to do
with this center chart with the chart of job growth rate, because in a normal situation, the small differences in the
rate at which jobs are growing, as you mentioned at the beginning, you know, jobs drive the real estate markets. And
so the rate at which jobs are growing any market or, or not growing, has a lot to say about the demand for housing,
and especially about future demand for housing. So, normally, we spent a lot of time analyzing the job situation, of
course, when all the jobs, you know, and and you can see in Dallas jobs are growing at about 3% a year, which is a
lot, you know, compared to others, that’s a lot, 3% a year a lot. But, you know, all of a sudden, when jobs dropped
10%, and then they've, they've slowly made a recovery. And, you know, we may get back to zero by the, | don't know,
maybe by the middle of this year,
markets gonna do well, which aren't. My primary indicator, quite frankly, is business services, because that’s, it's a
measure of overall business. And I've been, I've been analyzing marks to say, well, which ones are likely to emerge
fairly well, for this to happen said, we were talking about Memphis, Memphis ism is Memphis is not a growth market.
But it's but Business Services growing well, in that market, Salt Lake city's already in positive territory for business
services. So, you know, there's some leading indicators, | think, that are going to tell us which markers are going to do
particularly well, after, as we as | shouldn't say after, as we re emerge from this pandemic induced recession. So these
are, you know, these are these are looking at the future what's likely to happen based on the configuration of the
market of jobs in that market, and how those are doing right

Russ 45:58

now. And | think one thing that we talk about a lot on the real estate guys program is the difference between primary
jobs, what we call secondary jobs, and tertiary jobs, and just for everybody's benefit, just a quick recap of that a
primary job is a primary industry that tends to bring in business from outside. So if you manufacture something, or if
you grow products, or you produce energy, and you export that outside of your local economy, you're bringing
prosperity in from outside into the local economy, and that's a primary job, you're going to have secondary jobs,
which are industries that prop up around supporting that primary job. So kind of along the lines of business services.
The idea, for example, if you're an aircraft manufacturing company, and you are building your aircraft, you may
employ a lot of welding companies or, you know, specialty electricians or whatever that are going to be in your local
market. And those are healthy industries, but they only exist primarily to serve as the primary industry. And then the
tertiary are all of the restaurants and the dry cleaners and the car washes and all of the things that serve the
population who work either in the primary or the secondary, because if you have a an economy that really isn't
bringing any money in from the outside, and all it is a bedroom community where you know, people are going to the
local restaurant, and they're kind of spreading their money among each other. They may have commerce, and
everybody may have some income, and that's fine. But you don't have a lot of growth or robust economic activity,
because you don't have anything coming in from the outside. It's kind of the argument the past administration was
making about and Peter Schiff makes all the time about the importance of America, getting back into the business
of manufacturing, one of our biggest businesses has been finance and exporting finance and entertainment and
things like that. But we've we've really kind of left off a lot on the manufacturing side. Now, we don't know in the
current administration, how manufacturing and energy is going to shake out after 2008, a big part of the recovery
was the energy market. And of course, Dallas was a big part of that, along with some other markets in the United
States. But this is the kind of data that you can look at, and you can begin to get an idea. So | do think it's important
for all of us as investors when we're looking at an individual market, to just be thinking about not just the number of
jobs, but the ingos point, that kind of jobs, and what the growth or decline of that particular kind of job is really
saying about the overall direction and prospects of the particular market. So we have a couple of questions here.
And I'm going to try to answer these real quick. So Susan's just asking how these reports are different from what
we've done in the past, we've never done anything like this in the past. So in our special reports library, we have a
number of market reports that are really written by our boots on the ground teams. And they're giving us their
perspective. And of course, they all monitor their markets very carefully. But each market is written by someone
who's in an individual market and probably to a degree, they have a bias. They're trying to shine a favorable light on
their market. It's good Intel. And we always encourage them to tell the whole story, the good, bad and the ugly,
because inside the ugly, there’s always opportunity if you have a good boots on the ground team, but there's no
really consistency. And one of the things that we really liked when we looked at what Ingo was doing, we said, Hey,
this is kind of like the difference between MySpace and Facebook, right? My Space, anybody could write anything
any way they wanted and format their page any way they liked. And the problem with that was is that it was really
hard to do compared to what because or even find anything you're looking for as you move from page to page. One
of the things that we really loved about this particular format is a Ingo doesn’t have a dog in the hunt, which is what
he opened up in the beginning with and number two is the data is presented Exactly the same Market to Market to
Market to Market. Now, his commentaries, his commentary, but in terms of the actual data being being presented
and how it's calculated, it's extremely uniform. So | think it's a lot more useful for market monitoring, hence the name.
© Russ 29:50

Yeah, and this is where if you're, you know, out there looking at more than one market as you should be. Not too
many, but enough You know, maybe some things that are similar you, you would look at this report in isolation and
think, hmm, not so sure. And then you would look at it in comparison and go home pretty good. And people who
aren't doing that comparison are going to stay away and miss the opportunity that you're going to be able to see.
Because you're able to see a bigger picture and understand that people are moving from one place to another. And
it's one thing to read it in the news, or hear it anecdotally. And it’s another thing to be able to support it with the
data. And | do think that your more sophisticated clients out there, syndicators are going to be people that are going
to want to know that you've actually done the homework and found the data. And this service just makes it super
easy for you to find it. And it comes along with commentary. | mean, what | really appreciate it goes right here at the
top of the thing, you know, it’s like, hey, the markets overpriced, but it’s still can make sense in single family. And here
are some approaches, here’s some strategies you can, you can subdivide, or, you know, basically go multifamily try to
get more rent, per, per unit, or per building. And then you talk about flipping and some other things. So the point is,
it's gonna be different for every market. But you're gonna get a little bit of that insight for mangos perspective, at 30
years of doing this, every time you look at a specific market. So if you're still forming your investment thesis, or trying
to figure out if a market makes sense, you may find little nuggets, and then just have to ask yourself, well, then what
else might that lead to? What else is that indicative of? And we won't get into that right? Now? Let's move on, if we
can go to page

@) Ingo 31:34

images go back, because if | go back quickly to the other two charts, yeah, yeah, if we look at the red chart, you
know that the center chart, as | said, you know, nor This is job growth, this tells you about what demand is likely to be
in the future. And on the left hand side, would you say these are quarterly numbers for how prices have changed, you
know, quarterly, over the past four years,

@ Russ 31:57

and this is percent of change from the previous period on the

GC) Ingo 32:00

previous from the same year over year here. So their annual figures, they're always from the latest quarter, and to the
quarter, the same year. So here you can see and, and, and on the right hand side, you see, these are annual numbers,
these are actual home prices. And so, you know, obviously, what's what's on the left hand side is you click on the
right hand side, the reason | want to talk about the left hand chart for a second is that this is a good measure of the
demand for housing, whether it's single, these are single family home prices. But single family home prices are also a
good indicator of demand for all houses, which means rental housing. And, and this is one of our primary ways of
seeing how strong the demand is in a particular market. You know, obviously, when you go when you go through a
cycle like this, it's much more difficult to figure out what's going on right now. But in many markets, you'll see that
there's, you know, there's, there's very steady for example, if we're looking at Memphis, | was looking at Memphis
earlier, you see very steady growth right around the 6%. Mark for you know, all these years. And that means that
there's just steady, steady, steady demand. in Memphis, in Dallas, we see that there has been a home price bubble.
That's one of the things you see on the right hand side. In the blue, you see actual home prices. And in the red, the
red dots are a calculated price that we call the income price that says Well, if home prices were going up, along with
that the same way that income is going up, this is what the price ought to be. And it’s been it’s been an infallible, let
for 30 years, I've actually been through several market cycles. And that's why I'm an analyst, not an investor, | tend to
be risk averse, you know, but also, that means that you can sort of trust what I'm telling you is I've got no vested
interest in in and investing in any particular market. So | may be wrong or right about markets, but it’s not because |
have | am I'm trying to further my own ness with with the predictions that | make. So | know you want to go from the

Airbus Do you want to go into into one of their ports? or?

Russ 08:41

Yeah, let me just comment a little bit. So | think and, Robert, feel free to jump in. But | think we want to make sure
everybody understands that primarily, these reports are based on housing markets. And not everybody on this call.
And not everybody This indicates In fact, a lot of people who syndicate don't syndicate housing, however, housing is
largely a reflection of the overall economic health, health of a local market. Because obviously, the housing market
isn't going to be strong if there aren't jobs, and there aren't going to be jobs if there’s not local commerce. And so
those jobs and that economic strength, translate whether you're investing in retail, whether you're investing in office,
whether you're investing in multifamily, or other forms of real estate in any type of a major Metro. And | think that's
really obviously you can tell by the name Metro Market Report. This is about understanding the economic drivers
and the immigration patterns and the trends with respect to housing in specific Metro. So | just want to be very clear
to everybody what this is, and what is it It isn't and what his expertise is, but the one thing that | find fascinating, and
maybe this is just because | come out of the mortgage business, but | definitely understand insurance companies and
how good they are at analysis and risk Risk Management. And | think that if you're out there, and you're using these
reports, syndicators as part of your due diligence package as part of paper in your file as part of telling your story to
your prospective investors, even if you're not in the specific niche of housing in that market, even if you're not even in,
you know, single family homes, or even even apartments, but you can use it to tell the overall economic story, and
then understand it from the standpoint, | think from NGOs perspective, about managing risk about understanding
risk, and that somebody who comes out of MIT, which is kind of a world class, you know, information technology type
of an environment. And then it's applied those skills for the last 30 years, and made the cut working with a insurance
company who was trying to understand the risks they were taking when they were on the lending side of the home
markets. That's a pretty powerful package to bring to the table. And to distill this thing all down into a couple of
pages where it’s digestible, it's not meant to impress you by bulky there’s no thud factor on these reports. They're
extremely concise and to the point, but that doesn't mean that they're not chock full of information. So I'm going to
ask Ingo, in a moment to kind of break this down. And I'll do a screen share so that we can go through it and then
Ingo, you can walk me through the navigation. But before | do that, Robert, did you have any comments or questions
you wanted to throw into the mix?

Robert 11:30

Well, | love that report that, that you brought the perspective you brought on on the report, Russ, because you can
look at a lot of data. And frankly, as a syndicator, you should. But what we've discovered after doing this a long time
is your investors don’t want to be bothered with 300 pages are 100 pages, or even 40 pages, when you can show
them something in a concise manner, that still tells a lot of the story. And they can dig in deeper if they want to. That
is the sweet spot. The thing is most of most of us are watching several markets, we might be watching a half a dozen
markets at a time. And the great thing about the frequency of these reports is not the first time you read one, it’s as
you start to watch every time and what changes and you become well acquainted with the market. And maybe all
your projects are on one market. Awesome, | would still be looking at at least two other markets that are similar,
either geographically or in the makeup of product type and the demand is from so that you're getting that
compared to what we get close to market to close sometimes. And so having a third party perspective, like this is
huge. So | just was going to bring it up. And I'm glad you did Ross that it’s not intended to be everything in the world
about the marketplace. And the reality is, as much as some of you are data hounds, most of your investors are not,
they're going to appreciate a quick snapshot.
