JO

JO

Yes. | know one particular law firm that does it that way. And we've we've fixed their plans
quite a few times. The what's the downside of it?

48:31

The downside is that you're paying for an offshore trust up front. You're spending the same
amount of money and actually a little bit more to get this thing that springs away when
why not just get a domestic trust, that has a decanting provision and moves having a
springing power specially that specifically says if we're sued, then we're running away.
Judges is good. Bad evidence for you good evidence for the other side that, oh, there's
some kind of fraudulent conveyance here now for fraudulent commands is the change of
ownership, not the change of jurisdiction. But judges don't come from the trust world, so
they don't know the difference. And you're just getting on the wrong side of the judge.
we'd prefer to have the expense of a domestic trust that says, | want to go offshore when
I'm able. And if that ability just happens to be when some nasty stuff is coming up. It will
so be it but it's not designed in there and it doesn't have the cost of an offshore trust. It

really isn't an offshore trust yet.

John Michailidis 49:46

Well, well to riff on what you said then. Appearance wise, isn't it the exact same thing then

appearance wise? still gonna see this thing moving when that happens.

50:01

But then we get to argue, you know, our arguments that this was their whole design. That's
why we put this special provision in there. They just couldn't afford it. They needed the
budget for it. We're very sorry about the timing. But then we educate them still on the
change of ownership is very different from a fraudulent conveyance point of view than
change of jurisdiction. And it was preordained. It was written to the document three years

ago. Versus Oh, if there's a lawsuit, then this is moving.

Russ 50:36

Yeah. But you basically called out in your documentation, the triggering event, right,
whereas in the decanting provision, you're what you're doing is you're modifying or
memorializing the intent from the beginning, which has nothing to do with the triggering

event. Right? Correct.
Russ 23:27

Okay. So again, it's just it's just respecting the boundaries in your behavior. So if the | think
the principal in law, and we've got to educated lawyers and me a hack, but the principle
the way | understand it is basically if you don't respect the separation of the entities,
neither will the judge, neither will the law, right? It's you've got to, you've got to respect
that. And so if you if you were out to dinner, and your credit card was bad, and it’s your by,
and your friend, and | had this actually happened in business, | took a client out and my
credit card didn't work, and she had to pay for the lunch. And of course, | immediately
reimbursed her because it wasn't her money. | mean, it wasn't her bill, it was my bill, and
my behavior showed that so | guess that's the main point there. So Brad, Kevin, you got

another follow up.

Kevin Day 24:15

An example of how serious this is. | had a client who was saving money in her business so
she could buy an office building for her business instead of just leasing and they had a she
had a clip cumulated a good amount of wealth. This is in California. So commercial
building isn't inexpensive. And they had been looking to upgrade their home and they
found this lot. It was perfect. And so she borrowed the money from her business. And you
know, bought the lot, built the building, sold their personal home, but in the meantime
while they were still building She wrote a monthly return on that loan. And she had down
in the memo that she was doing this loan that went on for almost two years, not quite two
years. And then they sold their home and was able to arrest the whole thing. She got an
audit, you know, pull the straw audit, it wasn't triggered by anything. And they looked at it
and they said, Great, we want your loan documents and everything that was signed when
you got a loan, and she said, Well, | didn't write a document between myself. But look, you
know, for a year and eight months, | wrote these checks. And they say, We don't care. We
need a formal document that you had a loan, and he had proper interest and that it is.
And so they said that was a distribution from her company, which caused her tax and
penalty for not reporting. And so they can be brutal, brutal, even if there's no nefarious,
you know, event that was, you know, it was just sad that our legal system and tax system

work that way.

Russ 26:15
Yeah, well, we all know that we're milk cows, and they try to harvest as much as they can.
Okay, let's keep the party going. Brad, finish up with your follow up question. And then

we've got,
Then they go search for the financing. And even with a due diligence on a commercial
property, you are scrambling, trying to cover a lot of different things. And then you've got
to sit there and let 60 days pass of seasoning, before you can get your loan app in the way
it needs to be. And that's just a lot of time to burn, because you weren't proactive. So one
of one of the things that we've been really working on is pulling together in really a
cohesive strategy team that works together on a regular basis, the legal component, the
lending component, and the tax component. And I'm not on every one of those
consultations or phone I've heard, they've just been absolutely fabulous. I've been on a few
of them. And | get, you know, briefed and pulled in when financial strategy gets a little
complicated. But that integration is largely the responsibility of the individual investor, the
individual party, you or your client. And the problem is, it's really, really hard to pull it all
together. So once you kind of have your mind around this, and you can plug people in any
member of your team through whatever opening is available in your clients. interest, in
other words, that they're interested in asset protection, if they're interested in estate
planning, if they're interested in privacy, if they're interested in tax reduction, any one of
those doors is a way to get them plugged into your comprehensive team. And when your
team comes in and works really well together. that's largely unseen out there in the real
world. And when people see it in action, like oh, my gosh, | feel like I've died and gone to
heaven. This is exactly what I'm looking forward so much better. That's what we're
experiencing, which is why I'm working so hard at making it come together. And I'm really
grateful to Kevin and Mike and Stephanie and the other lenders for working so hard to to,
to learn each other's lingo and how it all works together. So just keep that in the back of
your mind, because it is a huge marketing advantage if you know how to use it. So Max,
before we come off your question, did we answer the question that you were asking?
Yeah, okay. So you're good to go. Okay. So john, and for everybody's benefit, spell your
last name because you have a lot of letters in that thing. And | still don’t know how to say
it.

OD John Michailidis 47:09
Are you? JOHN? Me? Um, Kevin, maybe a bit in the weeds. But I've heard that's because
you are a trained lawyer.I'm not. | don't do what he does. Yeah, | get it. I've heard that one
way, you mentioned that a couple of grand for the offshore, not so for domestic trust. And
I've heard a technique where you create a domestic trust with a springing component
component that should such and such event happen. Now it springs into becoming an
offshore trust, which you can save that X number of dollars per year, in fees until such time

as it's actually absolutely necessary to beat offshore. Thoughts.

© Kevin Day 48:13
35:71

JO

No, you're so closely associated with the real estate. That's an operating company, you
just have a foreign company that's registered in another state. So that's not inappropriate,
cuz they're expecting you because of interactions with you that you're related to it
anyway. It's the chaste company, as Russ called it, the company that doesn't do business
with any third parties other than you, we don't want your name on that. And we can do
that in Wyoming or Nevada. So they're actually quite straight forward, and in our

guidance to make sure your name doesn't show up in any of the public records. Yes.

36:13

JO

Can | have a follow up question? So if | did not create the Wyoming holding company, if |
do it after the fact, there's a historical record of it existing prior to being in the Wyoming

holding company, is that does that mess it up?

() Kevin Day 36:33

No. But what we we typically would do is is use the company that you're using right now is
the holding company, so that the third company or the second company, in this case,
would would be a totally private company that has third party transactions. It's a, it’s
equivalent. As Russ just kind of mentioned that these are friendly liens. These aren't from
banks, or hard money lenders, this is from your right pocket to your left pocket. And so we
can take the liens on and off as we want to, especially for refinancing or getting other
funding for the next project. And need to be in a position of authority. We just want to
make sure you're not named as a manager or a president. What we often do is use LLC,
because they're much more flexible. In their tax, it gives pine or your your CPA, the most
flexibility of taxing it like an S a partnership and LLC or a C Corp. But it allows us to make
you a president, because which banks like because it's a title of authority, but LLCs don't
use that. And banks don't see it. We've been doing that for 20 years, and they got great.
We have somebody that we see a title that we recognize great, we'll open a bank account
for you. But if you look online, it’s not your name in the public record. It's someone else's
nominee or elsewise. Going weekend.

© Russ 38:27

Okay, all right. So that kind of dovetails in | finally figured out that the Kevin iPhone isn't
Kevin day, it's Kevin Wrigley, I'm 99% sure. But he's doing a good job with privacy by not
having an icon and not turning his video on and not having a last name. But | recognize it

from previous calls anyway. So he says from a privacy perspective, | messed up on a past
LLC, haven't we all and put myself as Registered Agent. What's the best way to rectify
this? Can | quit claim it to another LLC | create? Meaning he's talking about the property
and Trent, you know, moving the property from a new LLC, because as Susan rightly
pointed out, you know, once you're in that record, especially in a state that posts its
records visibly, like Nevada does. Nevada lists everything, you can look up the history of
every Registered Agent, every officer, director, Secretary, whatever, all going all the way
back to the time it was formed, whereas Wyoming doesn't list the bat. And so depending
on the state, but assuming that it's part of the public record, you really can't erase it, you
can change what's current, but it’s always going to be there in the past. So then the other
way to do it would be to form the entity and that kind of bring another nuance Kevin that
I'd like to have you address in addition to this part, and that is the actual formation of the
entity. So my experience has been you form your asset protection trust that’s going to be
the ultimate owner of all this stuff, and that it forms all of the entities and you You're not
even part of the formation documents. So to talk a little bit about Kevin's situation fixing
one where he messed up in the past, what's the best way to do that specific to moving a
property from one LLC to another, and then dovetail that into the idea of when you
actually form the entity from the get go in the formation documents? How do you make

sure that you remain as anonymous as possible?

Kevin Day 40:22

Certainly quit claiming it to another is fine as single member LLC, with having you and
your estate as both owners should not trigger any gift tax use, check with your CPA. Yes.
The other matter is, and maybe we should just talk individually, you can call in for an
appointment is to really look whether you if, if you're so closely associated with that, do
we really want a lawsuit proof it in a different way? So keeping you on, we would still get
you off as a Resident Agent and go ahead and you know, pay the $85 or whatever to
commercial? Ra. So you get your name off? And depending on the state what state is in in
Kevin? Illinois. Okay. So they're probably not online yet. | don't know. But it would require
somebody down and looking at the microfiche history to find you rather than like what
Russ said, Nevada's is all computerized now, or at least to a certain date. So if you have a
relatively new Nevada company, it’s going to be in the public record and easy to find. So
I'd still take you off as Ra. But you might have some other strategy that you can employ
that lawsuit proofs the property, and we can still use that company. Or if you say no, I'm
going to be building in such a way that I'll need that | can use the company as a
management company or something else. And I'd prefer to get the property out of my

name than the quick claim would be the route to go.

Russ 42:23
structure to be able to operate and do business, which to me is two phases. Number one is
protecting your existing assets. And number two is having a structure to go forward and
represent yourself to the world. And there's just little line landmines you can step on,
whether it's what addresses what resident agents, what jurisdictions, what phone numbers
you're using, what naming conventions you use, if you're really focused on privacy, crip,
being as cryptic as possible, just making it very hard for anyone who's trying to track you
down to figure it all out, is really, really smart. So one thing if your inner circle, one of the
things that I'm happy to do for you is do a joint call. I've done that for a couple of inner
circle members. But | do that with Kevin and with Mike. And we kind of can go through
your structure and work things out. So if your inner circle, that's definitely one of the
benefits that you get. So make sure you take advantage of it. Because with completely
complete lack of modesty, | think I'm pretty good at this. And | think that | can | can help
interpret sometimes, because a lot of the technical people get really technical. And | know
in the beginning, my eyes used to glaze over and | didn't know what the heck they were
saying. And but I've spent years and years and years working this out. And | really feel like
| have my handle around how estate planning and the integration of the entity structuring
and asset protection fit in a syndication model, both from a structuring perspective and
from a marketing perspective. So anyway, so that's for inner circle. Okay, Brad, Brad

Niebuhr, you've got a question. The floor is yours.

Brad Niebuhr 13:06

Okay, | have a question. Um, and you have, Kevin helped us set up our offshore trust. But |
don't think | mean, | just didn't know the right questions to ask him. Maybe I'm protected.
Maybe I'm not. So | got to thinking about you know, we have several businesses, we got a
real estate business, we have syndication business, we have a construction business. I'm
always thinking of other things that are potential businesses or Anyways, what happens if
one of these pieces of real estate or one of these businesses, like our construction
business, something happens to that business, you know, something happens to an
employee or it bankrupts the business or something like that are all of our businesses. |
don't want one business take out the rest of all these other businesses is that and it's just
something | don't think we've ever talked about. We always talk about people suing us,
you know, slips and trips and falls and stuff like that. But | don't think we've ever talked
about like, one business that we own affecting some of the other businesses. And | just was

wondering if you could talk about that explained if we are protected from that aspect or?

Kevin Day 14:19
Right. The what's great about the structure that you have with the
Russ) 17:59

So there's, hey, Brad, let me just jump in for everybody's sake, cuz you're deeper into it
than everybody and | want to make sure everybody's kind of tracking and what | do. |
wanted to throw out there too. Yeah, yeah, that's fine. I'll let you go. We | think we got
plenty of time. And Ben, | see your question. And john, | see yours too. So we'll make sure
we get to those too. But, um, the first thing that that he covered in I've learned that to try
to keep these complicated issues fairly simple. You have to focus on patterns and
principles. Okay, so the first thing is he talked about your trust being kind of up on the
shelf meaning it's out of the fray, it doesn't do business with anybody else. In the secrets of
successful syndication, | describe that as chaste entities. They do not do business with the
outside world. You cannot remain chaste because you're a human being and you go
about your business and interact with the world. That's why you have to have a
completely chaste entity which is an irrevocable trust and that'll tie into what Ben Dickies
question is in just a moment. So that's that's kind of principle number one. And part of that
chastity is to avoid anything that looks like commingling. He didn't use the word
commingling hopefully as syndicators you're all very very familiar with it it with it because
you would never take your investors money in syndication a and use it to fund an expense
or a project in syndication B with a completely different set of entity of investors because
you know that they are completely separate. One of the big challenges in this type of a
structure is you have to divorce yourself of this idea that this any of this is you. It’s not you,
you have to treat your asset protection trust as it's completely isolated in third party from
you. You have to treat each one of your operating businesses that are owned by that asset
protection trust as completely isolated and separate from each other. Okay, now you can
work it out with your attorney. If you think making a loan from business a to business B is
okay but it needs to be properly documented, correct me if I'm wrong. And um, and then
the other principle that he talked about is this idea of placing liens. And we all in real
estate understand the idea of senior liens versus Junior liens. And that's exactly all you're
doing. You're creating, you know, what is effectively illegal third party lien from one of the
entities in your structure to another entity in your structure. And presumably, and again, |
don't know, Kevin, this is a question for you, is the entity that places the lien also chased. |
mean, it wouldn't make sense in my mind for business a to place a lien on the assets of
business B, because of business a goes down. Now the creditor who sees his business a
has a path to the assets in business B, it seems like it ought to be a, like, we've talked
about, you know, kind of an equity stripping or some type of an entity that does nothing

but hold these liens and doesn't interact with the outside world. Is that true?

Kevin Day 20:59
That's correct. You want it chased. You only want it having lien interests and not actual

interest and not have employees other than yourselves. Exactly.
structure figured out, then you don't even know how to buy the insurance because what
entity what activities are you insuring? It's like trying to, you know, open up your bank
accounts before you've kind of figured out your entity structure Like who? Where does the
money come into and who's going to distributed where you're going to hold it and you
can't figure all that out without your structure. So entity planning or entity structuring is
really what this is all about. And again, | don't want to turn this into a remedial class. And
we're not sure there's going to be enough questions to do this on a monthly basis. But we
definitely wanted to open this up. So I've monologues quite a bit. I'm going to give Kevin a
chance to say some things. And then and and then | see Brad's got a question. So we'll flip
to that in just a minute. But in terms of my opening comments here, Kevin and table
setting, is there anything that you would like to expound on or add to, to bring more
clarity to the basic understanding of what it is you do and how it fits in to what they're

doing? Based on your experience working with folks?

Kevin Day 09:24

Yes, what we really want to do is is one keep you streamline, we don't want to over
structure because then you don't use it. We want to support it the best way we can so that
you can stick to your knitting and making money but we want to make sure that we have
things in place that will keep your money. A little bit of privacy goes a long way even if
you don't get a full blown lawsuit protection plan. Having privacy companies that work in
tandem with are not your operating companies, but work in tandem with your structure
really goes a long way. You know, and so a lot of people are in the position of doing a
stepping stone fashion, we do roadmapping. So we can be hired, it's only $350, we spend
a lot more money than that, it's just to make sure that, you know, people are on board
with the work we're doing. And we'll outline what would be a perfect plan for people, and
the little teeny steps to get there. Certainly, in the mentoring club, you have free time with
me. And we can do a less formal version of the exact same thing to see what you have
now. And what would be a perfect plan where you plan to go, what would be the perfect
plan for that, and then either baby steps, or whatever, so you're not wasting money
getting something and then come back a year later and say, Oh, | formed these three
companies. And well, you really don't need those, or we can't use those now, because you
put your name all over it, or it's named similar to your operating company, people are
going to find it too quickly. Yeah, there's a lot of little things to do. You don't have to go for
the whole shebang.

Russ 11:20

Yeah, well, it's kind of like having a master planned community and you're building it out

in phases. You know, you got to get your MVP, what's your minimum viable product or
public perception versus what you don't want the public to see. And interaction between
the two. So you can move money from high tax jurisdictions to low tax jurisdictions or to

high liability businesses, to lawsuit proof businesses.

Russ 02:07

Okay, I’m getting a request for your iPhone to join in addition to you already being with
us, So | let you in, | don't know if that's going to create an issue for you. But you can quit on
whichever one you want, | think you probably want to be on your computer. Okay, so
again, we didn't have any questions pre submitted. But we do have a good crowd, which
tells me that there's a lot of interest. But maybe this is kind of "Hey I'm tuning in because |
don't even know what | don't know" kind of thing. So | the first thing I'd like to say to
everybody is thanks for being here. The second thing is we have some pretty good content
on the platform already recorded. And you ought to take a look at that if you're kind of in
that still trying to figure out "Which way is up” mode. You know, I'll tell you, I'm going to
give you guys a few minutes to think of questions that you might have and kind of
stimulate a little bit. If you have something stick it in the chat. So | can see that you have it
because | may or may not be able to see everybody waving at me. I'm moving back and
forth between gallery and speaker view. But so what | want to do is just take a take a
minute and kind of set the table because | just think that context is always so important
for all of this. And so the first thing is just understanding that you have all worked really
hard to get to a point where you own a certain amount of assets, you have a certain
amount of wealth, and you the first thing you want to do is get that protected. And what |
have found is the best way to get it protected is to get it 100% out of your name, move it
all into an irrevocable trust and asset protection trust, if it's big enough, you might
consider doing that offshore, when you go outside of the US jurisdiction. If you're a US
operator, that's just one more really deep moat, for a predator to swim through to get to
you. So that's, that's number one. But even if you just use a domestic asset protection,
trust, it still gets it out of your own name. So | can't tell you that that’s what you should do.
But | can tell you that it’s inescapable, for you to get liability free. If you're operating your
business, if you're living your life, you are going to create liability and if people get to you
personally, whether they pierce the corporate veil or you do something on your personal
life in your personal capacity, everything you own is at risk. So it’s not that difficult to get it
protected. But that's that's kind of step number one. Then the other thing is to then parse
out what you're doing in terms of your private life and your public life. And your public life
is is what your investors can see what all the counterparties that you're doing business
with can see. And then you're going to have what | call your chased entities, those get
group of businesses that own the things that only you own or you and your spouse or you
and your family. And that doesn't really interact much with the outside world, you keep

that very limited and very private privacy is a big part of it, you don't look like a target.
JO

Brad Niebuhr 26:25

| think, we pretty much covered everything. I'm pretty good. | we've got an appointment, |
think next week or something, what's your guys and | have any other specific more
specific stuff? We'll just dial into it then.

Russ 26:36

Okay, good deal. So Kevin, the next question we have | think is a pretty basic question
should be able to handle it quickly. And he's asking Ben is asking the difference between
irrevocable in a living trust. So Ben, rather than butcher your question, which | think |
probably am, just go ahead and ask it. So it comes out exactly the way you want it. And
let's get the answer from Kevin

Ben 26:58

Sure, we'll piggybacking off what she has said earlier, Kevin, maybe just speak to a little
bit of that roadmapping process that you mentioned, and kind of the steps along the way.
And then the benefits and what to plan for, from a maintenance perspective, as you kind
of move down the living trust to irrevocable trust and when those things might make
sense for an individual.

27:22

Yes, well a revocable Trust, or a living trust, is a living trust is revocable. And that's really
for, it’s really targeted only for estate planning. It all of us are on that conveyor belt. So it's
not if you need one, it's when do you need one. And since we're all on that conveyor belt,
the sooner you get it done and behind you and up on the shelf, you can forget about it.
But without it, with nothing or or just with a will, you'll have a probate and some attorneys
going to get 6% of your estate for running that probate. And you know, you don't have to
have, you know, multimillion dollar estate you have, you know, $600,000 estate, some
attorneys getting 25,000 $30,000 which is just ridiculous. You know, when you can spend
2500 or $3,000 to get a living trust. That keeps it out of probate. It names if you have
minor children names, you know, who are going to be guardians, so the courts aren't
deciding who are going to be your guardians. There's a lot of important questions in that.
And that stand alone it. It has no lawsuit protection. It's really just for probate avoidance
and a clean operation of your estate upon your demise or incapacity. And we're Blue
skyed we can do it in all states the Union. The so it doesn't turn it does turn into an
irrevocable trust. But at the advent of your demise, your death, the irrevocable trust, we

have other irrevocable trusts, if your states are really large, they're for gifting to your heirs
in a vehicle that they can't control it until after your demise and it also divorce proofs their
inheritance. But the irrevocable trust, we're talking about asset protection for those are
still estate planning tools, but that's kind of a byproduct that, you know, behind the
structuring the structuring is really to have an irrevocable trust that has you and your
spouse as beneficiaries to act as a separate legal owner under the law independent and
away from you. And they are legally recognized third party owners to the point of
somebody asking you directly Do you own company A, B or C, you can say legally "No, |
don't own it" because you don't. That's how the irrevocable trusts are so removed from
you under the law. So they're very powerful. Living trusts have no maintenance
whatsoever. Offshore trusts have a couple $1,000 of trustee, annual fees and government
registrations, domestic asset protection trusts, again, no maintenance other than fees,
which will be depending on who your trustee is, if it's your brother in law, you've given
them a nice bottle of cakebread Cabernet and they forgotten that they're there. They're
your trustee. And so there's really no maintenance on it. Underlying companies take more
maintenance, because depending on what they are, if they're a corporation, they have to
have resolutions and minutes. annual meetings. LLCs don't, but most people these days
say it's a better part of valor to go ahead and pretend like it's a C Corp and have those

resolutions. Or judges are expecting them. But the law doesn't require it.

Russ 31:11

Okay, so Ben, just to be clear for everybody, because | think was implied in your question is
a belief that there was an evolution that you start with a living trust and graduate up to

an irrevocable trust. At least that’s the way | heard it just want to make it very clear. That's
not the way it works. Again, Kevin, correct me if I'm wrong, but a living trust is the first
thing everybody should have right away. Because if you die, before you get the rest of
anything set up, you want to make sure that you don't have to go through probate, and
you make sure that your wishes are made clear, and you've got somebody in charge of
everything. And so everybody's going to have that, and that never goes away, that's there
forever. Now, how much stuff is you have in your own name that that living trust is going
to cover should probably be reduced substantially as you get the structure in place, and
the important stuff gets moved over to the irrevocable asset protection trust, but you're
gonna have both present in the Living Trust is probably the very first thing that you want
to get in place if you don't already have one. So Kevin, if you concur, I'm just going to keep
going if if not, okay, I'm going to keep going. So then the next question we have is from
john up in Canada, and he wants to know if he can deal with you, or if you have, if he
needs to find somebody up there. And I'm going to interject if he does need to deal with
somebody in Canada, do you have someone who you could point him to who understands

what it is you do when you work with?
Ollee

Audio - August 2021 - Ask the Mentors
Q&A Call on Asset and ...

@ Jhu, 8/1210:36AM @ 58:27

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

kevin, business, trust, liens, llc, question, irrevocable trust, property, offshore, structure, entity,

syndication, people, privacy, equity, company, building, clients, protected, money

SPEAKERS

Ben, Brad Niebuhr, John Michailidis, Russ, Kevin Day, Susan Horst

© Russ 00:01

Okay, Hey, everybody, it's Russ, this is our syndication mentoring club asked the mentors
for August 2021. And it is what I'm calling Entity Structuring, because it's about asset
protection, but it's also about it’s also about estate planning. And a big part of it is about
marketing. You know, to me, everything is marketing, | always want to make sure that | am
talking about how do you use these things, not just to play defense, but how do you do it
to play offense, most of us are geared to play offense. And so | think we instinctively feel
that that's more interesting. But with that said, if you don't play defense, doesn’t matter
how many points you score, if somebody can come along and take it all away from you,
then you're not in very good shape. So our resident mentor for all of this is Kevin day. So
let's say hello to Kevin, Kevin, why don't you just take a minute, and just give everybody

the nickel tour and your background and keep it short? Yeah.

© Kevin Day 01:05

| was | wrote five books back in the early 90s, on international planning, and kind of got
pushed up to the top of the heap in the asset protection world. And so not only do we do
complex international trusts, we do domestic trusts, we do all the normal wills and trusts
and basic planning as well, necessarily, as an asset protection planner, and a privacy

planner, we do corporate structuring and make sure that things are segregated from your
So I'm going to jump in and just make a comment kind of ties into Max's question which
we kind of addressed on the equity stripping, but | want to make sure that we give it full
treatment. He's asking how does a bank lender view the equity stripping lien, hopefully
they don't view it, what you what you do is you work with your lender ahead of time. And
you can ask us on the Ask the lenders, when we do that, ask the mentors call with the
lending team. Because depending on if it's residential property, it may be a little bit
different than if it's commercial property. But basically, when they do property
underwriting, they really only care about the last 60 days. And so if you know that you're
going to be doing this, then 60 days ahead of time, you just pull it off. And, you know, and
yeah, it's kind of like driving uninsured for a couple months, while you're, you know,
rearranging things or, but that's kind of the price you pay for accessing the loan, and then
it goes away. And then you go through and do your whole loan, and then you throw it
back on on the back end. It’s like when you are refinancing, you know, just a residential
property and you've got it in a living trust, and the idiot lenders can't figure that out, right.
So you got to take it out of the living trust, and title it in your own name, so that you can
go through the refinance. And as soon as it's done, you put it right back just like you did in
the beginning. And then there's some catch all thing you have in your trust and anything
that's not in your trust, at any point in time is really meant to be in your trust so that if
something were to happen in that little interim period, the lawyers have figured out a way

to to stick it back in for the effective part. So Kevin correct anything | said if | misspoke

43:57

JO

that is all correct. And that's what most people do a few people have old fashioned
relationships with their bankers and they give a consolidated report and say golden
mountain funding or whatever you call it, will subordinate and go be below you. But these
days when bankers are so squirrely and you have a new representative every year, most
people aren't willing to take that chance and we just pull it off and then put it back on

when the smoke clears

© Russ 44:29

well and it affects your net worth. so if you're in there you know making representations
about your net worth based on your balance sheet you've got to count those liens is you
know not having the equity and the problem is that may take you out of the running for
the loan. So I'm gonna go back to what | said earlier is that the whole idea is being
proactive you know, too many real estate investors Robert and I've been complaining
about this since the very, very, very beginning of working together. They run around out

there they get hot and bothered about the property they buy the property make an offer.
Russ 14:26

idea, let me just jump in real quick. As a reminder, we're recording this is going to go on the
platform. So anything you ask, anything you answer, that's about your specific situation.
Just be aware. This is not you know, your attorney client privilege. This is going to be for
members currently and in the future. Now, everybody knows that everything inside of the
platform is confidential, but it's definitely not the same level of confidentiality you have
with your attorney. So feel free to ask your questions and feel free to talk openly. But just
remember that that's how we're using this particular session. So, okay, Kevin, sorry to

interrupt, but | want to make sure that was clear.

Kevin Day 15:04

Yes. So Brad Smith, | will talk generally about structures that might be similar to what you
have. The the trust is put up on the shelf, but it is the ultimate owner of underlying
companies that don't do any business with third parties other than you, so you're never
going to sue yourself. So it is lawsuit proof. You've got legal deniability. But that's a tactic
in setting it up before any legal storm comes your way. It's completely protected. And we
can tell the other side exactly what was done and how it was done. Now, yeah, your
question, really related to three operating companies and one blowing up? And will it take
the others? And will it take your personal home and assets? Well, the the structure that’s in
place, one, going back to basics, as long as they you don't buy your personal groceries
with any of the business cards, they're not going to be able to pierce the corporate veil. So
they shouldn't be able to get out of the box. But what's great about our planning is any of
the assets in any particular part three of the the company operating companies, you don't
want to lose that you've worked really hard for these. And that's why the paperwork
program that we work, which attorney Michelle Fishbein works on and her staff is putting
liens, senior liens against those valuable assets. So even if something blows up, you have
a tenant Sue, and they do get a, you know, $5 million judgment, and you had a $2 million
insurance policy, they would normally be able to take that apartment building or those
single family residences, but with the senior liens on it, they won't be able to do that,
because they're protected to a third legally recognized third party owner, that is not you,
even though it's part of your estate plan. So don't do anything silly in operating your
business, do the normal pushing the envelope, which all entrepreneurs do, but make sure
that it's connected to reasonable and ordinary business of that particular business. But
beyond that, even if something blows up, the lawsuit protection plan will protect all the
assets within the company that actually even did the harm. So yes, your home would be

protected and the other two businesses.
32:37

JO

Yes, we certainly we have a good number of Canadians as clients, the International trusts
behave exactly the same. It's recognized in Canada, as a third party owner, and it can be
at variance with local trust law, because of the signing of the Hague Convention on trust.
Instead of a 3520 filing, there's a T, | think it’s a T three filing for Canadians. And if we're
using a little us trust, which is less expensive, it’s still deemed in a foreign trust, if you're not
resident here. Even if you have businesses here, if all of your businesses are located in the
US, but still want are in Canada, but you still want to employ it, the privacy planning the
equity stripping, we would be able to do that, because of treaties between Canada and
the US, you would be able to form structures down here, that equity strip and do the same
planning against your businesses and properties in Canada, we would have to hire a
Canadian attorney. And we do have your contacts with a couple firms up there that are
big enough that they're in all the provinces to do any liens. So you don't want to transfer
properties up there because the transfer tax on real property but you still can put the liens

and it doesn't trigger.

© Russ 34:19

Okay, to be clear, when Kevin says equity stripping, he's talking about putting liens on on
anything that has any equity in it. So you have a senior lien, some some of us here equity
stripping, and we think we're going to actually pull equity out like with a cash out
refinance. That's not what he’s referring to. Just to be clear on that. So Susan Horst has a
question about foreign registering her entity, the original entities managed by a firm in
the state where the real estate is, but the foreign registered entity is managed by her is

that a problem? So if you need more clarity on that, ask Susan.

34°52

_)O

Susan, is that a company or trust? the foreign entity

() Susan Horst 34:58

is a company it's an LLC See if it just it’s only purpose is to own real estate in the state of
Tennessee, but | live in Washington. And | needed to open a business bank account. And
they wouldn't let me do it, unless | had a company in Washington. So | fomred/registered

it. But | just put it the foreign registration, my own name, it's like, did | blow it?
© Russ) 21:13

Okay. So the idea is chastity, commingling and then making sure that you have seen your
leins to everything before there's a problem if you do it after there's a problem. The other
principle that didn’t get communicated, but is the concept of a fraudulent transfer. In
other words, "Oh, my gosh, | see danger, hide everything” too late. | mean, it’s probably
too late, you might be able to get away with it. But it's not a risk worth taking. Just get it
all set up early. And then you have to maintain the discipline of really understanding.
That's why I'm kind of harping on these patterns and principles. Because in the real world,
you don't want to have to make a phone call every time you're going to do a deal and ask
Is this okay? If you have the patterns and principles memorized, you're going to be right
most of the time. And then if your accountant is clued into what you're doing, and you're
reviewing your books on a regular basis, anything where you step out of bounds, you
probably can quickly go back and fix. So Kevin, talk about that. What if somebody has

this structure? And they've actually violated a principle can that be unwound?

© Kevin Day 22:13

Well, first of all, | want to say we're available to our clients. So that's exactly what we want
them to do is, oh, I'm about to buy two more single family homes, | forgotten what you
said. That's all right. Because you shouldn't focus on that if but once you get two or three
under the belt, it’s really going to usually it’s then the phone call is this is about what I'm
about to do. And | think | need some more documents prepared. And you know, we say

great, that's gonna be $400-$500 or whatever. And we'll prepare this up.

© Russ 22:51

| mean, you know, so what if I'm out on the road, and I've got, you know, a wallet full of
credit cards for different entities, and for whatever reason, I'm having a problem with one
of the entities and | need to charge an expense. And it's the only credit card | have is a
different entity, and | use it because | have to to get you know, to rent the car, do put out
the fire, do whatever | got to do. Am | able then to go back and either, you know, like,

reimburse and document all that. And,

© Kevin Day 23:16

and I've done that, where something won't just take my personal credit card, so | shoved

my business card in there. And | write a check the next day. Absolutely.
People won't come after you if you get accused of being a poser. And you're, you know,
you're somebody pretending to have wealth, but really don't great. Let them think that
I've seen critics of Robert Kiyosaki say that the man doesn't have anything perfect. That's
exactly how you want to show up. Okay? So there's that part of it. And then and then kind
of once you get once you get past that, the thing that you want to think about, if you're
not, if you're, if you're not, somebody, we got some noise going on here. So if you're not
talking, make sure you're muted. And Kevin, | think that might have been you, actually. So
I'm going to mute your iPhone and just leave your computer up. So the other part of it is
now understanding that you're going to have to work out your own estate planning issues,
you know, something happens to you. And there's two components to that. There’s what
happens to your business, and who's going to operate it and how's all that going to work if
something happens to you. And then the other part of it is your personal stuff, your family
and all of that the normal stuff that everyday non syndicators have to think about with
their asset planning. Okay, so those are some things you want to think about. On the
marketing side, when you're out there looking for opportunities, you want to look for
opportunities to get Kevin and his team introduced in the mix. If Kevin is the guy, you
choose to be your person. And he's part of the bigger Strategy Team that I'm working out
with the CPA, Mike Pine and Stephanie Riley in the lending team. So that that really helps
each of you get get a lot of friendlies in the in the position of advising your clients and
keeping them more anchored to the ecosystem that you're a part of right, you don't have
to participate in that. But | can tell you, the more people that are on your team, that are
part of your clients team, the greater and tighter your relationship with that client is and
that's a good thing. Okay. But when you recognize these different components, and the

components are privacy, tax, asset protection, and estate planning, did | miss any Kevin?

Kevin Day 07:18

No. And one of the attendees asked about insurance. And insurance is part of the mix. You
want the ankle biters taken care of with some cheap insurance. But there are attorneys
that look for big people that have big policies, because that means they've got a good
extortion. So you want to keep an appropriate amount, but don't go hog wild, because
insurance will always have the fine print where they don't cover fraud and transactions
where you're taking people’s money, they'll always say fraud, whether they can prove it or
not. And that gets you out of insurance, you're having to pay your you know, out of your
own pocket. So we want to do planning, smart planning, and we save you money there. So

you don't have to buy the giant policies and insurance and still hope for the best.

Russ 08:14

Yeah, the insurance is an overlay on the entity structure. If you don’t have the entity
© Russ 53:31

Nevada is trying to catch up.

@) Kevin Day 53:33

That's because too many Californians move there. And they think it's normal. That's
disgusting. But a lot of people, you know, that rubs them the wrong way. So as Russ said, if
we have a lawsuit protection structure that has the friendly liens against it, we're backed
up with proper consideration, and that's part of what we do is to make sure we have that,
then that's the real lawsuit protection. And you still want to keep your investments away
from your home and other projects. So you do put them in in an LLC, but you can cram a
bunch of single family residences in there, but other states. Sometimes, the LLCs are so
inexpensive. | don't go overboard and say one LLC for every property, I'll usually say
maybe for single family residences, maybe up to seven in one LLC, but then spend
another one because the company only costs a couple 100 bucks not like you know
California you have any experience with series LLC. Series. LLCs are great for real estate
from an accounting point of view. They don't do much from an asset protection point of
view because it spells out and lets people know exactly all the properties that you own,
because it’s all similar named the one It's being sued because the kid got electrocuted on

it. But it's very effective from a management and tax point of view.

© Russ 55:11

Okay, so we are going to take one quick question from Susan, which is, | think, short
answer turnaround time on legal docs and corporate docs. How long? You know, I, | know
from experience, a hard part is getting the structure done. And mostly that's me, over
engineering, everything I'm doing. But that's a different problem. But once once the you
get the the forms back, and you're given the greenlight go to form the docs. How long
does that take?

@) Kevin Day 55:39

Well, companies are usually within, you know, 36 hours. Wyoming and Nevada companies
we can form in 24. trusts Usually, we usually say everything is wrapped up in four weeks.
And most of that is the clients not getting documents to us. We can do it in weeks.

Russ 56:01

Why are you looking at me when you're saying that? Kevin? I'm feeling horribly guilty at
the moment. Okay. All right, ladies and gentlemen, big hand for Kevin day for being here
with us today giving being very generous with his time in his wisdom, great questions. So
this is going to end up in the platform. So you all can review this as many times as you feel
like you need to, but | do encourage you. If you're kind of new to all this go in and look for
all of the content that we've created already with Kevin, and Kevin and | have some ideas
about some things we want to work on too. But | love these ask the mentors calls, because
they let us know really where you guys are at in the real world. In terms of the real
questions that you have and the level of understanding that you have, I'm going to
encourage you to invest time and really get your stuff organized. And don't just look at it
as a as a distraction or a deviation from building your business. But look at it as an
investment in a strategic education. Because once you do understand this at a good level,
it's not only going to help you operate it properly going forward and train your team to
support you properly. But it will literally open up lots of doors of opportunities for you to
build bridges of relationships into clients and add some real extreme value far and above
what they're getting from anybody else. They're contemplating making an investment
with. And you know, as Robert often says, quoting Brian, tracing, Tracy, everything counts,
everything you do to add value into a client relationship counts. And when you show
somebody that you have wisdom, and connections, wisdom and relationships, and that
you care enough to go out of your way to recognize they have a vulnerability, or they
could save on their taxes. And you can show them conceptually and then make an
introduction to somebody that can help them get that over the finish line. You're going to
build some serious trust. And this is a business about building your brand building your
network. And that starts with trust do do they believe you care about them. And this is a
great way to demonstrate it. So keep that in mind as you're going about your business out
there. Kevin, thanks again for being with us. Thanks, everybody, for joining us, and we'll

see you on the next one. Watch your email for the announcement.
© John Michailidis 50:51

JO

Oh, it’s it's actually quite the same thing. It's just more subtle. In Yeah, it’s,

50:57

it's tactical, its tactical, but also, you're spending, you know, 8 or $9,000, for something
that will move offshore with a decanting provision, rather than, you know, log No,
particularly, they charge something like $30,000 for this spring trust, that no one we
charge $25,000 for real INTERNATIONAL TRUST, Why get something that purports to be
an international trust that you're spending that much money and you don't have an
international trust yet? Okay, thanks.

Russ 51:38

Okay, so we are budgeted for five more minutes, and happy to give everybody full value.
As far as | can tell, we don't have any additional questions in the chat. Before | kind of turn
it over to Kevin, for any closing thoughts, we have Kevin ziphone, asking what is the best
practice on multiple SFR rentals individually owned, okay to have in same LLC or
separate entity for each property, that’s going to be probably a business decision. So I'm
going to chime in on that a little bit before | let Kevin go all legal on you. But the way |
understand it is it’s just a cost benefit analysis. If you don't have any equity in any of those
properties, and you really don't have a lot to lose, except for the cash flow. If you've got a
bunch of them in a single LLC, if you do have some equity building up or there's some
other compelling reason like for, you know, one property is super high risk, it’s in a bad
neighborhood, bad tenant base, you just feel like it's a problem, then you may want to
isolate it. But you know, at some point, all these entities cost money, obviously, if you have
different sets of investors, I'm assuming you're asking this from a personal perspective in
that, because you know, that type of question is like, all the owners are the same. But if
you don't, every every syndication is going to be a separate LLC, because it’s completely
separate ownership. So you're going to have separate LLCs. So but you know, if you've
got a lot of equity in a property, you're probably going to a isolate it and be because it's
justified because of what's at risk. And B, you're going to use the equity stripping to
protect it. So, Kevin, that's kind of my 28 cents there. What say you?

Kevin Day 53:19

it depends. It is the economic and particularly places like New York or California,
California has that S800 minimum franchise tax, and then
