anytime soon. So they're great. They're, they're great vehicles.

Russ 58:23

Yeah, so we've done several shows on the topic. And | believe there’s a couple of reports in
the library at Real Estate guysradio.com, | don't remember how to get them probably
opportunity zones at Real Estate guys. radio.com, check them check the report, or asking
membership for help. And the other thing to think about is, you know, you may say, Well,
you may not be structuring a deal that's designed to take advantage of an opportunity
zone. But this is where you get to follow the big money. So if you identify an opportunity
zone that has fallen into favor with other investors and capital is moving into that zone, a
rising tide lifts all ships, you may go into that market, and you may not have an
opportunity zone deal, but you may be in or near an opportunity zone that has struck a
chord with the with capital and capital is moving in. And the thing that’s great about that
is that the benefit of those types of long term investments isn't often seen right away. In
other words, that's infrastructure. That's that's that stuff that they've put in and the the
market is going to continue to be the benefit as that is that those major capital
infrastructure investments are made that begin to build up | mean, obviously, you know, if
you're if you're rehabbing a downtown that's just been in disarray and you've put in new
buildings, new hotels, you put in all this big money stuff may be more the size of deals that
none of us are going to play and it may take a little while before that starts to open up
opportunities for the smaller properties, the secondary and tertiary properties, subprime
those major projects, but if you're paying attention, you can see it coming and you can get
in It early and ride that wave. So it can be a strategic way to pick a market. So paying
attention to opportunity zones, that's something that | have a news alert set for. And I've
been tracking it for. Gosh, it's been going on since it was announced maybe eight years. |
know, not eight years. That was a JOBS Act. It was like last two or three years whenever it
would, it would. It was 2016. Right when they passed out. Yeah, so the last five years. And
so there's, there’s there's been time for that capital to move but not time for it to fully the
seeds have all been planted, but maybe the the garden hasn't grown fully yet, and there's
still time to get in on the action. Okay, all right, ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna call
that a wrap. Big thanks to Mike pine for being very generous with his time and wisdom
and really appreciate the great participation today. Remember, it's always great if we get
your questions in advance. But as you can see, it’s hard to stump Mike, you can ask him
things right on the fly, and he knows what he's doing. So lots of good stuff. So everybody
have a great day and we'll be looking forward to seeing you at the secrets of successful

syndication in a couple weeks. Thank you, everyone.
about what your deal is, meet with your advisor, your tax advisor, and really understand
the tax ramifications, because it's the hardest thing for you to know as a lay person, as a
non tax professional, unless you really are carved into a niche and you know your niche
really, really well. And the way you get there is by spending a lot of time going over your
deal. And then with your CPA, but once you know it now you know how to structure your
deal. So when you're looking at a deal for the very first time, you want to understand
when you're trying to figure out all of the all of the ROI, or all of the available what | call
the meat on the bone, just make sure you take you meet with your tax advisor and really
get your mind around it. And then when you do that, don't just look for the specific
answers, but pull out the patterns and principles that would apply to other similar deals
like when Kenny McElroy explained to us how important having jobs that were linked to
the geography were what | call geographically linked industry. And he was big into oil and
energy production coming out of the 2008 crisis. | looked at that principle. And | said, Well,
what other industries would that principle apply to? Well, you know, resort, you know, you
can't take a trip to the beach and export that to China, right? If people are going to go to
the beach are going to go where the beach is. So resort property was one. The other one is
distribution. And so if you look at what the real estate guys did, we focused on resort and
we focused on distribution towns in addition to energy towns, and those all turned out to
be pretty good place. Not that any of them are insulated from problems but but we took
the principle and applied it. So when you understand tax breaks, like depreciation or
accelerated bonus depreciation or section 179, and you start to look for deals that have
those components, you may be able to see opportunity, or meat on the bone that other
people don't see what looks like a mediocre deal, which is still doable, but you add the tax
benefit and all sudden, it’s amazing. And that's been the secret sauce for Dave Zook with
his ATMs been the secret sauce for Eric Shelley with his co2 scrubbers, when you find that
it can really open a lot of capital, because who are the people who typically have tax
problems? The people have a lot of money. And so when you become a tax expert or a
tax solutionist for them, you're gonna attract capital. Okay. So, Susan, let's jump over to
you. And again, I'm just going to open up the mic and let you let you ask your question
directly.

() Susan Horst 45:58

Well, I'm not entirely sure it's the appropriate venue for this question. As a person leaving
the W2 world and and heading into syndicator, entrepreneur land, I've never been
responsible for my own healthcare. And so how do people syndicators handle their

healthcare costs?

© Russ 46:23
Scott Florida 21:52

Yeah, | think so. | mean, if I'm hearing you, right, the accelerated depreciation and the cost
segregation are kind of the same thing. The bonus depreciation is something special
that's been added in and could go away. And then section 179 is another thing altogether.

Is that correct?

Mike Pine 22:08

Yeah, pretty much. So accelerated depreciation is just the concept of taking the cost
recovery, taking the deductions faster than the 27 and a half years for residential
property, or 39 years for commercial property. So taking anything faster than those those
years, those 27 and a half or 39 years, is accelerating your depreciation. If you do it, if you
take bonus depreciation, you're just accelerating on to the first year. If you don’t take
bonus, or section 179 deduction, you're still accelerating that to five years or seven years,

in some cases, even three years, but not a lot of property on that amount.

Russ 22:47

So I'm going to jump in real quick, just to put a little bit of more clarification on that.
Because | know sometimes it’s hard for real estate investors to think like accountants, but
but if you understand that, when you go into debt, what you're doing is you're bringing
money from the future into the present. And then if you understand the idea of amortizing
a loan, the longer you amortize it, the smaller the payment. So if you kind of understand
that basic principle, they're doing the same thing with the tax break, if they give you the
tax break over 27 and a half years, you're going to have a much smaller per year, because
you're dividing the total amount of the tax break by the period of time. So when you
accelerate that, you just use a smaller number, meaning like a five year amortized loan is
going to have a huge monthly payment, because you have to pay the whole thing back
over just five years. Does that make sense? So that’s the same thing. So that that's the
concept of depreciation schedules. And the, the smaller the number, the bigger the chunk
each year, that you that you get to deduct the the idea of the cost segregation is they're
saying, hey, the land itself, it has zero depreciation, because it's already dirt, it's already
depreciated down to the lowest denominator, right? Ashes to ashes, dirt to dirt, right? So
it's dirt. So now you've got the building and the building and the building the frame the
structure, that's going to last a long time. So we're going to give you a long schedule on
that one, because it’s going to last long time. So we're gonna wear out but it’s gonna take
a long, long time. Whereas with the, you know, the drapes and curtains, the fixtures, some
of those things are going to wear out sooner, so we'll let you write them off sooner
because you're gonna have to replace them sooner. And so that's kind of the concept of

cost segregation and different, different schedules, as far as how quickly you can write off
distributions to be tax free, but offset their W2 income, the only way to do it is through tax
credits. Eric's deal with the the co2 scrubbers are incredible because they do provide
those credits. So anything that provides tax credits, if you can, if you can get these credits
that | mentioned earlier on the call, that will offset their w2 income and the tax related to
their w two income. But right now, it's it’s the way the tax law is written, it’s very hard to do

it through deductions.

Russ 40:49

Great, yeah. So the lesson there is you have to understand when you're looking at your
deal, everything that your deal can do. as investors, what we tend to focus on is either
cash flow cash on cash returns, or, you know, equity growth, which would be capital gains
unrealized until we realize them, whatever our strategy is to go from cash to asset to cash,
we're either going to buy, add value hold, and then dispose at some point or do a do or
do a refinance. Those are usually the two ways that you get the money back to the
investors. But a big part of what you can offer people at the tax breaks, but you really
have to understand your deal. So one of the things that | would recommend, pretty
strongly as | think everybody can probably figure out is when you're contemplating
looking at a deal, and you're trying to understand how much meat is on that bone, before
you start carving it up for your investors or figuring out how to structure the deal. You call
up your CPA and say, Hey, here’s the deal. And what | want to understand is, what are alll
of the tax benefits that are available in this particular deal. That’s number one. And
number two, who qualifies to get them. Because if it’s got a bunch of passive losses, then
you your best investors are going to be people who have a bunch of positive passive
income and can take those losses. Now, if you find something where you're fortunate to
find something where you get immediate tax credit off settable for active income Boy,
that opens up a whole new range of investors. Or as Eric found out, when he was
structuring his deal, he decided that he wanted to go after the IRA money and all sudden
these tax breaks that he had didn’t mean that much. And so he had to restructure the
deal. He didn't, he didn’t restructure, he didn't change what he was investing in, he stuck
with what he knew and who he had relationships with, and what he understood and all
that. But he’s changed the way he organized the deal in the paperwork, so that the right
people got the right breaks. And | think that's the major lesson here. You know, the first
thing is to really understand the deal, and all the facets all the benefits of the deal. And
it's not just equity growth, it's not just cash flow, but it's also the tax breaks. And there may
be some other components, it could be the you know, the personal enjoyment factor,

which is often there with a resort property, it could be something that somebody wants on
their resume, it could be, it could be what else. The other thing that was one more thing, |
can’t remember what it was anyway. But you'll have to, you'll have to just understand all of

the different components. And so before you put your deal together before you even think
Co-sponsoring. | know Brad, you're on the call. And | know you worked on doing kind of a
sub what we call affectionately call a sub syndication which Mauricio says no, it's not a
sub syndication, it's something else. But we just call it a sub syndication. It's basically
where you're coming into a deal and your primary role, not your only role. But your
primary role is to raise money. And you have to be a part of the deal to make that
happen. We've only really discussed that from the legal perspective. And so Brad, since
we have the honor of having you on the call today, do you have anything you want to
chime in from your experience of actually going through this? Did you take a look at the

tax side of the things when you put together yours?

Brad Niebuhr 34:26
We ran it by our CPA, and she didn't give us any negatives. So |

Russ 34:36

| don't think it was a concern. | don’t think Mike was saying issuing your concern. It was
more of a missed opportunity. It was being able to take advantage of it. Well, the carry is
just you getting a share of the profits on the back end.

Brad Niebuhr 34:47

Yeah, and I'm definitely going to have to ask you about this that we were just talking
about. Yeah, cuz | had not heard of that. And it's Yeah, the depreciation is no different on
our equipment than it is on anything else. And, and so we split everything 50/50 with Eric.
We're both GPs in this together.

Russ 35:12
So So Eric’s the guy that brought the deal. And Brad and Emily came in and said, hey,

we've got investors that would be interested in that deal. And we want to put money into
it. We want to help raise money to do that. But we want a piece of the action. And so they
went to Mauricio and said, How do we structure this not? Can I, they didn't say, Can | do
this? They came and said, How can | do this. And then they went round and round and
around and Mauricio figured out a way to do it from an SEC compliance perspective. But
now what | hear Mike talking about is, hey, there's some tax considerations that may or
may not have been focused and bigger picture, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is just a
constant constant thing. The reason that we're working so hard behind the scenes to
integrate lending with tax with legal is because if somebody doesn't do if you don't recruit

a team of people that work closely together and really understand the kind of deals you're
doing the challenges, now you're the person like a general contractor, with no general
contracting, or construction experience, trying to pull together all of the subcontractors
and have the project make sense. And you know, if you've ever tried to, | tried to be my
own GC on my first rehab, but it was my first time doing anything | didn't, | didn't, | didn't
even | didn't know what mud was, or taping, | didn't understand anything. And here | was
trying to run the project | was so far in over my head, it was ridiculous. But you know,
again, when you're when you're handling investor money, and you're really out there
trying to create a tax benefit, and certainly wanting to create a tax benefit for yourself,
and then also at the same time you're trying to be compliant. And you're only focused on
listening to one discipline, the chances are, there's going to be some level of compromise,
where you're going to have to balance the two disciplines off each other and figure out
which risks you're willing to take which rewards you're really trying to seek who's going to
get them? Right, the deal is structured differently if you're going to give the investors the
tax break, versus if you want to take them. And obviously, the deal is structured differently,
if you're the person who's bringing somebody in to be your partner to raise the money, or
you're the person who's coming into somebody else who's got the deal, and you're gonna
raise the money. So there's just a lot of different parts. And | think the best thing about this
call is just bringing that to everybody's awareness. And again, I'm coming out of this. I'm
getting asked Mike and Maruicio to get together and work out some kinks and Mike,

maybe what

Mike Pine 37:31

we actually already have Russ Oh, see what I'd like

Russ 37:34

what excellent service, that's great, how fast you are?

Mike Pine 37:37

Well, I've worked on it with some of his staff before, but one of your inner circle members
was just finishing up a ppm and they had us review it and | got on the phone with them
and Mauricio. And, and it's important for you to have your CPA and your attorney working
together and talking together, because some of the things that | recommend for tax do
increase liability that Mauricio is very, very good at mitigating. And it was it needed to be,
we needed to have a discussion with both your inner circle member, Mauricio and myself
explain, hey, this is what you can do for the tax advantages. And then Mauricio explained,
well, here’s the additional risk you're assuming. And then ultimately, you have to decide

which one you're what you're comfortable with taking. So there's always a cost benefit.
people who are, hold on, I'm getting used to managing this thing. People who are just
doing some type of a generic type project. We didn't get too much into the cost seg type
of thing, but we found some other deductions that we weren't aware of, which was
fantastic. But let's talk a little bit about cost seg Mike, specifically about any changes that
might be coming with respect to it. It's been my understanding that a lot of this bonus

depreciation that we've been enjoying is is got a shelf life. Is that true?

© Mike Pine 09:46

Yes, the way the tax law is currently written, oh 100% bonus depreciation exists in 21 and
22. And then starts phasing out 20% per year. So in 2023, you only get 80%, 24 you get
60% and so on until it goes away. That's how the that's how the current tax laws written.
We've been very concerned that the new tax legislation that Congress is trying to get
through and draft, is going to maybe eliminate that or take it away or somehow reduce it
or put floors or thresholds on it to disallow it for people. The best news I've seen all week is
| don't know if any of you guys saw the op ed that Joe Manchin wrote, but Joe Manchin is

basically put a complete full stop on this new tax legislation.

© Russ 10:30

Yeah, he said he was in for like, 1.5 trillion out of the 3.5. And that, you know, is going to

slow things down considerably,

© Mike Pine 10:39

Considerably. And it turns out that there's a lot of other people on the left side and
Congress that aren't so okay with raising taxes, like they want to raise taxes. The biggest
one that's that's made me nervous about our syndicating clients, and most of our clients is
taxing capital gains at ordinary income tax rates. So if all things went through, based on
what Biden requested, anyone who made over a married individual made over a million
dollars in a year, including any capital gains would be hit with tax of 43.4%, before their
state income tax on capital gains. We've seen a lot of pushback on both sides of the aisle
of that | think they're still going to probably keep something like that in there. But they're
talking about making it over five millions, Ryan widens, asking for over 100 million. So |
think that’s I'm excited about that. So anyways, back to the the bonus depreciation. | don't
know if Congress is gonna eliminate it, when they finally do come out and pass this tax
law. I'm highly confident it's definitely gonna exist for 2021. Very likely for 2022. But until,
as our speaker of the house actually said this, again, our spokesperson said it. We're not
going to know what's in this bill until they pass it so we can read it. She her sookeswoman

actually said
© Russ 15:07

Yeah, | call them | call them escape hatches, instead of loopholes. It’s an escape hatch,
you always have that, you know, if you're going to set a trap for somebody, you got to
have a few escape hatches for those in the know. And that's why we spend so much time
trying to be in the know. And of course, as you're putting together your deal, your deal
structure, you're out there talking to investors, you need to begin to, you know, plan
ahead. And so that's one of the reasons why we do these calls is to make sure that we're
looking out at the horizon a little bit and kind of have an idea what's coming, what's
already been passed, but not implemented, what is being considered that we need to be
paying attention to. And of course, obviously, we have to always operate within whatever
is actually being implemented at the time. And then there's the what they intend to
implement and how it works out in the real world. And sometimes there's a disconnect
between that in the actual practice. And that’s where we wait for things like Tax Court
decisions and IRS rulings and things like that to get more clarity and what is usually and
maybe purposely very ambiguous and vague code, subject to a lot of interpretation,
sometimes people aren't willing to, to take a chance. And on that, on that note, I'll also
say that if you're going to put together a deal that is really heavily focused on providing a
tax benefit, you really want to understand how solid foundation that tax benefits like 1031
tax deferred exchanges go way, way back, Mike just talked about cost segregation going
way, way back, section 179. been around for a long, long time, right? depreciation in
general are things that have been around for a long, long time, when you get these
special stimulus type things like bonus depreciation, accelerated depreciation schedules,
even above and beyond the cost segregation side of things, then you just need to be
careful about how much you depend on those things. Because those are even more
political than kind of some of the baseline principles. It's in the tax code. Okay, so Scott,
Florida, you have a question, rather than have me try to read it. Since you're on the call,

why don't you unmute yourself and fire away?

©) Scott Florida 17:11

Okay, so my question is related to building a portfolio of single family homes that are new
builds, say we start the project in November, but don't actually complete until March? How
does the depreciation system work there? And | honestly | don't understand the difference
between bonus depreciation and accelerated depreciation versus the cost segregation, |
guess | have a pretty good picture of the cost segregation. So any explanation to help fill
in those blanks would be helpful, too. So really, two questions. What's the difference
between those cost segregation and the bonus depreciation / accelerated depreciation?
And then the second one is, so build a new build of properties? Start them in November of
2021? Finish them in, say, march of 2022. When can you offer those tax benefits for

investors?
That's great. Yeah, you very likely would qualify for 10 times 2000, or 20 grand of a tax
credit. If you're doing renovations or some other overlooked tax deductions now, not
credits for tax deductions that a lot of people don't look at. And it’s not everyone's not
eligible for it. There's things like the section 179 D deduction, which is actual double dip
deduction and allows you to get a deduction if you're improving energy efficiency, which
the requirements for that change each year based on a new baseline of what is
considered energy efficient. There's, there's other things if you're doing development
construction, | rarely see syndicators look into the potential of the research and
development. credit. Research and development credit is something that most people
think that just applies to tech firms or chip manufacturers or computer software
developers. That's not at all how it works, though. If you're doing construction, if you're the
ones constructing the property, there's a lot of reworking that you're doing. You're actually
doing research and development and figuring out how to build it the best. And when you
do reworking, that's also considered research and development. The engineering and
changing the engineering for it is considered that. And rarely do | see our non clients
actually taking the research and development credit when they do qualify for it. And that
is a tax credit. It only really applies if you're designing and building the product project
though. If you're buying a pre existing building, then it doesn’t qualify. In your case, it may
very well qualified because you are doing a lot of designing, you're probably going to
unfortunately experience some reworks as well. So there’s some other credits in there.
Those are the big ones | see people not even looking at or considering. And then also just
outside of the tax deduction arena in specific, you know, tax deductions that are
available, there's a lot of things | see syndicators messy when they're not working with
really astute attorneys that know what they're doing when they're writing up the ppm and
the operating agreement. The biggest one that in sorry, Russ, if | keep repeating this, but |
keep seeing it, it drives me nuts. So many syndicators are limited to not taking the bonus
depreciation from the cost segregation. Because of the way their operating agreement is
written. They can only take the percentage of whatever they've contributed and a lot of
syndicators, most syndicators get a carried interest on the back end of any, you know,
eventually when they sell the property 20% 30%, sometimes more. And there is a way for
syndicators to get 20 or 30% of that bonus depreciation that they can actually utilize
because their real estate professionals and it can reduce their income from all other areas.
And that one just keeps keeps really irking me when | see a new client or new syndicators
already got their way out. And their pom is without and people sign it that's that’s the

other honestly, the biggest one that I've seen that continues to irk me every time | see it.

Russ 08:58
Okay, thank you very much. You bet. Okay, so that we talked a little bit about this specific

residential assisted living. And then we kind of got into some things that are generic for
when the negotiating comes, they have things they can take off as a concession to get
what they want. And so there's just a whole bunch of garbage that goes in on both sides,
and everybody freaks out about it. But then at the end of the day like that the 1031 has
been used is that since forever, almost every single time, there's a tax change proposed,
they put the 1031 on the chopping block, but it just never, it never gets done it always get
something that is given away as a concession to get something else. And so, you know,
the consensus, at least from these two guys is that's probably what this is. Okay. All right.
So we're very near the top, I'm just going to share a link with everybody in the chat, there
was an article that came out in Bloomberg, about maximizing the tax benefits with
opportunity zones and cost segregation. And since we had a discussion about cost
segregation, and | have heard now that it looks like it's going to be very difficult for the
Biden administration to unwind the opportunity zone benefits. So. And | think even when
he was candidate, Biden, there was a fair amount of discussion that he was going to, he
was going to stick not not touch with that, you know, he commented, even when he was a
candidate, that this thing still looked pretty good, maybe they're going to try to improve it
or whatever. But generally, they weren't going to mess with it. And | think that by and
large, it's been working, it’s based on a long term investment, a long term commitment to
a community. And, you know, so it's, it’s not hitting headlines, probably because it was a
Trump administration initiative. And, you know, the, the news doesn't like to give Trump
credit for things that are working. But the fact is the opinions that I've heard of Mike,
maybe you can comment on this, that the, the likelihood is that those opportunity zones
are going to continue to exist. And so when you put that opportunity zone together with
cost segregation, now you've kind of double dipped and supercharged your write off. So,
Mike, you have any closing comments on that you got a couple minutes before we hit the
top of the hour.

Mike Pine 57:06

Yeah, we could talk about it for a while maybe we can do that on the next mentoring call.
But opportunities zones were created to help improve the economy in lower income
geographies without throughout the country. | mean, it’s really, it's it's, it's not a
conservative based idea. It's really to try to help lower income geographies. And like Ross
said, Biden came out in favor forum and says that they're helping them they're working.
So | can't, if anything, | think they're going to expand on it. And it is a great opportunity.
There's a lot of things to learn about it before you go, push them or raise money on them.
But | think it's they're here to stay for a while. The the tax benefits of sheltering current
capital gains to invest in opportunity zones are diminishing, and a lot of them are going to
go away after besides the ability to defer the capital gains, it’s they're going to go away
after the end of this year. But the ability to grow your investment, whatever you put in tax

free and shelter from any gain, as long as there's a 10 year old, won't be going away
dive into that, then let's, uh, let me just say that, obviously, everybody knows what
depreciation is. Everybody knows what cost segregation is, | think implied in there is the
idea of accelerated depreciation. And | think that schedule is maybe subject to change.
There were some things that were in the old tax code, | think that are beginning to phase
out, correct me if I'm wrong. But then also, you know, the idea of a residential assisted
living project is kind of its unique animal. So | guess I'm going to kind of parse this into
different pieces. So Mike, if you can comment on first of all, just Is there anything
inherently different or unique about a residential assisted living project versus any other

form of real estate with respect to depreciation, cost segregation, and all of that,

Mike Pine 02:05

The cost seg and depreciation run the same, and there is one really cool tax credit that’s
available for assisted living homes, as long as they are under three stories or less, If they
are three stories or less, there's this great tax credit under Internal Revenue Code 45L, that
is an actual tax credit of $2,000 per door. And depending on how many doors in there that
can really add up and then tax credit and like depreciation is actually counts as its tax
paid by the investors or whoever's getting the allocations of income and expenses. And
you have no requirement to be a real estate professional that take the credit, like you do
with the cost segregation and depreciation. And it flows through and to all of the

investors and reduces their tax bill dollar by dollar instead of just being a deduction. It’s a

dollar by dollar reduction of their taxes and can even be refundable.

Russ 03:03

So and is that unique? Because it’s residential assisted living? Or would that be common
with any type of shared housing like student housing or like a recovery house, you know,
halfway house, some of these, you know, like the addiction recovery or, you know, houses
like that, is it? Is it because it's residential assisted living? Or is it because it's just shared

housing?

Mike Pine 03:27

It's, yeah, so it's not available to like multifamily housing or apartment complexes, there

has to be some type of assisted living. Some type of services being provided.

Russ 03:39

So somebody is running, say, save somebody is running an addiction recovery center with

those same benefits apply?
each piece of it. And then the idea of accelerating something is simply to take whatever
the baseline is whatever they've said it is and make it go faster in order to create some
form of stimulus and in this case, it was depreciation. And they're going to speed that up
and allow you to take an even bigger PC did the same thing back when Hurricane Katrina
hit in New Orleans way back in the day they created the gozone and the Gulf opportunity
zone was first concept of an Opportunity zone. And what it was designed to do was allow
you to take 100% of whatever you invested, you get 100% of your depreciation the first
year, or 50% of it the first year, | think it was. So you got 50% of it the first year. So if you
had a 27 and a half year depreciation schedule, you got half of it, the whole thing in year
one, and then what was left, the other 50% was over the next 26 and a half years. Right.
And so you had a smaller depreciation later, but as we often say, more sooner is better. So
you were able to write off more sooner. So they will manipulate that the same way.
Anybody would, you know, you manipulate your financing structures to create impacts on
your cash flow. And government is just doing the same thing at a macro level in order to
stimulate the movement of capital where they want it to go, or where they don't want it to
go. Does that make sense? Mikey dude, is there anything you need clean up on that, that |
missed speaking anyway? No, it was a much better explanation. That wasn't better. It was
just was speaking. You know, I'm just interpreting because I'm not an accountant, either.
Hey, I'm going to jump down to Jeremy's question, because it's still in the same topic, and
then we'll switch switch over to SAP. But Jeremy, why don't you go ahead, just ask your

question since you're on.

Jeremy Melancon 26:12

| had a previous CPA say that since the builder had broken down every little cost and had
backups to those costs, if they could do the cost segregation from that. Now realize you
wouldn't you know, when you when you work with the cost segregation professional, a lot
of times that they have some type of agreement that if you do have an audit, they will
help you through it. | know you wouldn't get that from the builder, but you would have the
documentation backup. But my main question is, Is that a viable option or even an option

legally, as far your opinion is?

Mike Pine 26:50

Yes, it is. So usually, when you're building and drawing from a construction loan, you fill
out these forms for each draw request called G703s. And those break out the property by
class life. And you can use those and we've used those with with clients in the past, and
they're pretty bulletproof with the IRS. But more often than not, Jeremy and I've seen
where cost segregation methodologies end up being better than and working out better

giving you more tax advantages than using those G703s in the actual contractors listing
of the expenses. | don't know why it works that way. | think if you talk to a cost
segregation engineer, they could explain it. But | think we've compared them probably a
dozen times in the last 10 years to my recollection, and only one time that the G703s
come out better than the cost segregation. And again, cost segregations aren't some
magic gray area number. The IRS has prescribed allowable methods. The court cases have
ruled in the Tax Court that's these methods are acceptable and the IRS can't can't fight
against it. The only thing that the IRS can fight against in a cost segregation is how much
value you ascribe to the land. And we usually go very aggressive on that. Well, we'll we'll
take the property tax rolls immediately prior to purchase from the the state property tax,
or the local property tax agencies. And they usually have a much lower valuation on the
land as compared to the improvements. And we'll take that and use that we've got a solid
basis to take it so not getting any penalties or interest. But when costs eggs have been
audited the IRS usually want the only thing they can really argue with is the value of the
land. And usually that they'll they'll try to increase it, you can fight against it. Half the time
we've won, and half the time they've been they've increased instead of 10% or 8%
proportion that we ascribe to the land they'll come up with 14 or 16%. And it just results in
a little bit less depreciation they don't typically make you go and amend prior returns.
They just make you correct it proactively and reduce your depreciation deduction for a

year or two years if that happens.

Russ 29:12

And since we're on the topic of cost segregation, for those of you that may not be aware,
Robert, and I've done a few shows on that. But if you go to the website and just search the
archives or search the website for cost segregation, you'll see that in in the special reports
arena we have or area we have a special report | can’t remember what it's called on cost
segregation by Eric Oliver, who will be at secrets of successful syndication in a couple
weeks. So | think we're going to have him up on stage for a panel that we're going to be
talking about cost segregation and tax breaks so but if you're interested in | think you can
send an email to costseg@Real Estate guys radio.com and get that report. So if you're not
up to speed on cost segregation, get the report. Read it But also go back and listen to the
show in the archives with Eric Oliver. Okay, good stuff. So, Mark, Chase, you had a
question. But here's the deal. That's really more of a legal question. I'm going to go ahead
and pose it to Mike to see if he’s gonna punt to it legally. But in the interest of time, I'm just
going to go ahead and just reading Can | raise capital for a raise, presumably, without
being listed as a GP on the deal? If not, what are some roles | could legally play as a GP?
Well, most of my work would be raising money. So in other words, he's trying to figure out
how to add value to somebody else's deal and get compensated for it. And that’s a legal

question. But are there any tax ramifications you can think of with respect to that?
Olles

Audio September 2021 - Ask the Mentors
Q&A Call on Accountin...

a Thu, 9/91:08PM = @ 1:01:18

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

cost segregation, tax, bonus depreciation, deal, depreciation, mike, residential assisted living,

mauricio, people, property, building, years, investors, understand, structure, deduction, question,

capital gains, irs, biden

SPEAKERS

Ben, Sep Bekam, Brad Niebuhr, Mike Pine, Scott Florida, Jeremy Melancon, Russ, Susan Horst

Russ 00:01
Hey syndication mentoring club. It is the Ask the mentors for September 2021. And we are
talking about shutting our cell phones off. We are talking about tax and accounting with

mentor Mike pine. Hey, Mike.

Mike Pine 00:19

Hello, thanks for having me again.

Russ 00:21

we are excited. | understand you're feeling a tad under the weather. So we won't mention
that. So nobody will notice. And then we've got a good group of folks here looks like, Oh,
good. We | was just gonna say all guys, but now we have Jana hubbs joining us and so she
always has good things to ask. We had one pre submitted question from Ben Dickey, who
is not on the call. But I'm gonna go ahead and take a look at the question. | couldn't figure
out how to work it. And it had to do with the tax advantages outside of doing cost
segregation for depreciation that he could consider with a residential assisted living

project. So, Mike, before we dive into that, let me just change the view here. Before we
And so there's no way to do a boiler plate to allow for this without Mauricio or your
attorney also explaining to you the legal ramifications and the potential additional risk or

liability you're taking on to do so. So, yeah. Okay, any different for every syndicator

Russ 38:45
good stuff. And then it's

Brad Niebuhr 38:46

Perfect timing, because we're just putting, like last night, we just got the word to we're
gonna start putting together another one with Eric. So this is perfect. This is what we

needed.

Russ 38:55

Good. Well, so there's there's different there’s the legal concept, there's a tax concept, and
then you ultimately have to make the business decision. And so if you're an inner circle
member, and you're having these kind of conversations, you can always pull me into the
conversation, if you think | can add some value. That's part of what you get for being an
inner circle members. Not looking for more things to do, but obviously happy to help and
it's always a great learning experience. So for you inner circle members, just always
remember that. Mark, I'm going to ask you to bring that one to the call with Mauricio,
because he's gonna have quite a bit to say on it, because he's experienced with it. But |
don't think there's really much more we can say on it from the tax standpoint. So I'm going
to kind of move on here. We covered Jeremy back to Ben Dickey. So Ben, why don't you
go ahead, just ask your question real quick, rather than save everybody watching me try

to squint to figure it out.

Ben 39:48

| was | was just curious if | think | know the answer, but | wanted your take if you if there
were any tax benefits for limited partners and syndication projects that could offset W2
income I'm thinking outside of oil and gas. But just curious if you knew or had any ideas

there.

Mike Pine 40:06

Yeah, it's hard to do. You can't do it depreciation that when you can to offset their w two

income, depreciation can offset their other passive income, or it can cause their
Russ 12:02

That didn't work out so well, last time. Oh, wait, I'm sorry. That was a personal opinion.
Take that back. Okay, so that's awesome. So let's assume real quickly that if the bonus
depreciation thing doesn't work out so well, you just got done rattling off a few other
things that are available to folks and specifically on the residential assisted living side, or
any type of shared housing where you're providing some type of service. | guess if it does
go through and all sudden people are faced with higher tax bills, whatever remaining tax
deductions are available, become more valuable, if you will, in terms of structuring your
deals. If you figured out how to create tax deductions, aside from bonus depreciation,
then the money that was going into bonus depreciation deduction vehicles probably is

going to be more interested in whatever's left. Is that a fair statement?

Mike Pine 13:00

Yes, it is. Before we move on, though, if | can just go back to the bonus depreciation and
cost segs . Even. We were doing cost segs 20 years ago, before we had bonus
depreciation. If you buy and build up, buy or build a property, multifamily or commercial
property, most of the value that you spend is stuck in either 27 and a half year straight line
depreciation for residential property or 39 years for commercial. So even if you don't get
bonus depreciation by performing a cost segregation, you're pulling out a considerable
amount. Anywhere from on just very like warehouse type commercials 18% of the total
cost of that building, up to 35 to 38% on multifamily housing, you're pulling that out of the
27 and a half at the 39 year life, and you're getting the majority of it over five or seven
years. So it's still very beneficial. Even without bonus depreciation. It's not as beneficial,
but your cost eggs are not going to go away even if bonus depreciation does because it
still accelerates the depreciation in the first five years of the property for seven years on
the property. So those those will always be valuable unless our tax laws completely
change. But yeah, like you said, Russ, there's gonna be other deductions and other good
tax planning opportunities regardless of what the tax law is. Every single time Congress
has raised taxes, they have come up with a lot more loopholes is the most accurate word
because they all have special interests. They’re all either have have an agenda, whether
it's energy efficiency, and providing types of energy credits, or they've got their lobbyists
that are giving them their campaign money that are asking for carve outs and there's
always carve out so those will be much more valuable. Once they pass this tax law. If they
do raise taxes if they even if they don't eliminate a bonus depreciation, they're going to
create new tax opportunities. And you just need to stay ahead of it and communicate that

with your investors.
Mike Pine 30:43

| can tell you, I've seen it done. It's the general and the syndicator is the one who will work
out with fundraisers what they're going to get in return. And I've seen syndicators offer
limited partnership interest or non GP interests, in return for the the monies raised, it's not
generally the best way to do it economically for you, because you don't get a piece of the
carry at the end of the exit. If it's ever going to exit, we still can't get a piece of it, maybe
they'll give you small, | mean, a greater piece of the non carried interest class of
membership interests are limited partnership interests. So I've seen it done. It’s been done
many ways. It's just you don't have to be a general partner on it. But generally speaking,
most people are using LLCs. Now versus limited partnerships to start syndications. And
they don't have general partner interests versus non general they have a managing
member and other members with different classes of membership units. So like there'll be
the Class A will be the normal investors and then just a small, you know, simple two tier
structure that have class A that are the investors and then they have class B, and Class B
gets the carry at the end. So you don't have to be a general partner managing member to
get the class B, in my example. So you can still do that. But as Russ said, there is it is a
legal question that | think an attorney can maybe answer better, | can just tell you, I've
seen it done many ways. And you don't have to be a GP to get carry. You don't have to be
a GP to raise money. It's all a agreement between you and the actual managing members

syndicator.

Russ 32:24

Yeah, to be clear, Mike is not a lawyer. And he's not giving you legal advice. So just
because he’s seen it done doesn't mean to the people who were doing it, were compliant
with sec, because Mike wouldn't have the expertise to look at that and know that that's
the case. So don't just take this and go, Hey, | can do this because Mike said so. Mike's not
an attorney, check with Mauricio or your or your, your sec attorney, to be sure. And then
I'm going to have Mike, if you haven't already done this was a couple things that came up
that were related to the intersection of law and tax, that if you haven't gotten together
with Mauricio, I'm going to ask you to do that. One is you've mentioned and you've
mentioned this before, and you guys may have already done this, where you've seen that
the tax breaks in order for the sponsor to be able to get the tax breaks, if in fact the the
equity doesn't need it, that the ppm has to be written a certain way. Obviously, the person
drawing the documents needs to know what that certain way is. And so you know, you
would want to have if you're having your attorney, drop those documents, and you aren't
sure that they're familiar, you probably want to have your CPA review it before you ink
everything. And then I'm going to ask Mike and Mauricio to get together and make sure
that Mauricio is very up to speed on Mike's perspective, so that Mauricio’s documents

reflect that if they don't already. Then on the other side of it was the tax ramifications of
Mike Pine 18:04

Good question, Scott. And it's great to see you again, my friend. The rules are you get to
take the deductions when the asset is placed in service. And typically for rental homes or
residential properties, it's when they get their certificate of occupancy. And when you
actually get them leased out. So in your case is probably earlier next year that you're
going to get the deductions on that. As far as let me just kind of do a big brief summary of
the other questions you asked Cost Seg, bonus accelerated depreciation. So let's just say
you buy a small duplex. It's a multifamily housing, it's residential property. If you just buy it
and you assign a value the land and assign the value to the building, the IRS lets you
recover your cost of that building. They want you to take it over 27 and a half years, you
take whatever your cost is divided by 27 and a half, and that's your depreciation
deduction each year. That's not accelerated depreciation that is just standard, boring IRS
depreciation. Accelerated depreciation would mean that you take some of that
depreciation faster over five years, over seven years, over 15 years. So when you do a cost
segregation, a cost segregation engineer goes out. A lot of them are actually doing it
remotely now. But a cost segregation engineer takes apart the architecture of that
building. They say in this building a percentage of the cost of it is allocated to the flooring,
and flooring has a seven year depreciable life not a 27 year life. Some of it’s for the
appliances which have a five year life, some of it's for the HVAC ducting and the fixtures
and if it’s funished, he furniture all those have shorter year lives. So cost segregation
specialist uses IRS prescribed and allowable methodology to break all those components
out. And typically, with multifamily housing, you get somewhere between 25 and 35% of
the total cost of the building, let's say you spent a billion dollars on it, you get 250 to
350,000 segregated out, that's now available to depreciate over five years, over seven
years, and the small amount over 15 years. So if you didn't take bonus depreciation, you
would just be taking that 250 to $350,000 deduction over five years and seven years for
the most part, instead of over 27 and a half years. So that's where we come up with the
concept of accelerated depreciation. Now there's bonus depreciation, which means it
allows any asset placed in a service with an IRS prescribed life of last 15 years or less, to
go ahead and deduct all of it in the first year that you place it in service, which is a
wonderful thing. There’s another thing called section 179, that allows you to do the same,
there's more hurdles and loopholes and you can't buy too much. You can't place too much
assets in service. But that's been around forever. | don't know when it's | mean, it was
around when | was in college back in the 90s. And it's gone up and up in in amounts
adjusted for inflation each year. So at the current rate, right now, you're allowed to
Section 179 | think a million and a half dollars. Even if bonus depreciation goes away, you
can you can choose to take that as a quick deduction in the year you place it in service,
versus having to do it over the five, the seven, the 15 and the 27 and a half year lives. Does

that answer your question, Scott?
Mike Pine 03:45
Yes, if they're if they if it’s a new bill or a new purchase, if it’s a new purchase, the credit is
less than $2,000 per door, but if it's a new build, and it's 2000 bucks a door.

© Russ 03:58

Okay, so, Ben, | know you were a little late getting on, we went ahead and started without
you, but we were addressing your question. So the first question, you know, your your
question was, are there tax advantage outside of doing a cost segue analysis for
depreciation that you could consider with residential assisted living? And apparently there
is something that's unique to residential assisted living? So before we move on from that,

Ben, did you have any follow up questions to what Mike just said, if you heard at all?

© Ben 04:26

No, | got | got the majority of it. | apologize for being a few minutes late. And that that's
great information, Mike. | really appreciate it. | was also going to frame the question and
hopefully a more macro way that might be beneficial to others not doing residential
assisted living, which was just when we're putting together these projects like this, are
there common areas or themes that you see people overlooking when they're structuring
their deals, and mine is particularly a residential assisted living, that you would advise us

to think through or work with, either yourself or our CPA on

© Mike Pine 05:00

Yeah, that's a great question. And there are common things | see a lot of people missing.
Every circumstance is different. Are you? Are you building this residential assisted living?

Are you buying one that’s an existence.

© Ben 05:13

Um, this specific situation was a general contractor was renovating a home, got into
lawsuit, and then got a judgment that he couldn't continue. So it's stick framed with a
roof, and it was just stuck on the market, and nobody was buying it. And so we are buying
that structure. And then we're doing a renovation with a design build firm to make it into
a 10-Room facility.

© Mike Pine 05:39
your expenses. And then and then of course, | think there's some other things if you end up
you know, generating huge amounts of your profit on on the fees, then you'd have to get
get through your with your CPA and start being creative. But it starts out with just creating
a very generous benefits package for yourself, you'll actually find out when you do it, that
you're better off being on your own than you are under an employer's program, you have
a lot more control over it. You know, the fact that you have to pay your half if you will of
the self employment tax is really small relative to the benefits you get from having
complete control over what you're doing. Okay, now | saw you waving your hand. Do you
have one quick follow up question. I'm gonna have it go quick because | skipped over Sep

so we need to get back to Sep’s question.

Susan Horst 49:52

Yeah, | just want to know when you move from deal to deal you have a different
management company.

Russ 49:57

Nope, nope. One management company manages all your deals. So when when you
come to secrets of successful syndication, you'll see it again. And you've seen it before,
every single time you've ever come, | always get up there and show it. You have one
management company, one holding company. So you have your holding company that
holds your interests, you have the management company through which you manage
your syndications. And then you have all the different entity to entity to entity to entity
that you do, where you're holding company partners with your investors. But your one
management company manages all of those deals. So you set this all up under your one
management company. And that never changes. And so you can you don't have to come
back to secrets of successful syndication to see it, but it's good if you do. But it's in the
platform. If you go back and look at the module, where either | go over the entity
structure, or when | go over the insurance structure, you'll see the basic structure. But
we've added since we did those tapings, and | just talked to Robert and I'm going to be
doing it again. This time I'm going to be going laying out the basic structure. It's not a
super sophisticated structure, | really recommend people go to Kevin day and get a really
strong structure in place. But the basic structure is a holding company, you're gonna have
a living, you're gonna have you a living trust, your living trust is gonna own your holding
company, and then your management company and then and then you have your your
project entities. Okay, so Sep, let's jump over to you go ahead and unmute yourself and
ask your question.
 

Sep Bekam 51:50

| haven't found a filter for that one yet. So first question is Thank you, Mike, for being here.
question is in regards to the tax law changes, proposed tax law changes for transferring
properties from one LLC to another. So when it's not a sale, but you're just transferring it
from LLC A to LLC B, and the LLC ownership structure is the same. There's no members
changing out at the summit at sea or some sand. | believe | heard Tom wheelwright say
something along the lines of that's potentially something that would be treated as a

capital gains event. So it’s wonder if you could provide any updates on that, please?

Mike Pine 52:27

Yes. So so far, | think they're gonna have a hard time, they would have to truly rewrite the
entire tax code that covers partnerships. Assuming your LLC is a disregarded entity or it's
taxed as a partnership, contributions and distributions of property or cash are not a
taxable event. So if you do it, right, they are talking about and this wasn't in the Green
Book from Biden, but some of the congressional committee reports were asking that, hey,
if we transfer from one entity to another entity directly, then maybe we should trigger that
as a taxable event, just like if someone dies, let's trigger all their properties and unrealized
gains. There's been some rumors about that, but as long as you structure it, right, you
would distribute the property out to yourself, which is a non taxable event, and then you
contribute it into the property and the Internal Revenue Code 721 absolutely says,
contributions into a partnership or a disregarded entity are non taxable and 731. Flat Out
says distributions out of a profit of a partnership or disregarded entity are non taxable,
and that's been around since '86. And | don't see them being able to change that. So I'm
not too concerned. Now if your LLC has been taxed as an S Corp. It's already a taxable
event, as the current law stands, so | hope that answers your question, but | don't see it.
They would have to truly completely rewrite subchapter K of the Internal Revenue Code if

you're not a a S corporation in order to make that work.

Russ 54:05

Yeah, and Sep. | think we did a follow up something with Tom. And maybe it was this last,
were you on the one that we did with Tom for the Summiteres? I'm pretty sure we address
that. So when that comes out, watch that. But we did a q&a, a live q&a with Tom for
everybody that was on the 2021 summit. And one of the things the it was an update on the
Biden tax plan, and also a discussion about the taxation of crypto but it when we were
talking about the potential changes to the tax code, one of the things that came up was
that exact question. And he said, like, Mike, they're in agreement that the odds of that
happening in their opinion is very small. It would really you know, it’s | think what happens

you'll see if you watch politics long enough, people put a bunch of stuff into a deal so that
It's actually a better question than you realize. So I'll let Mike go first, and then I'll have

some thoughts.

Mike Pine 46:29

You bet. So generally, you're going to hold your interest and the syndication and some
other type of entity or management company or whatever, whatever entity you create, in
that entity, you're going to have your own operating expenses as well as the income and
you can run your health care costs, have their health care, insurance premiums, through it,
and you end up getting an adjustment, you get a you get a deduction for it, | call the
adjustment, same thing as a deduction on your personal tax return for those costs. You
can also set up the the cafeteria plan that the cost sharing plan the HSA is you can do alll
that in your entity that you set up to own your interest in the syndication? And it's a great
question because a lot of people don't think about it, and then they just soend out of
pocket, they don't get any benefits out of it. But you do, you're operating a business and
your business is allowed to help support healthcare costs. And those health care costs are

tax deductible as a business,

Russ 47:30

You can actually make it even better. And so if you set up your, your management
company as a C, because alll it's going to do is collect fees and pay out expenses. And it's
never going to really produce a profit, you're going to be taking your profits passively
through your holding entity. That's where your carried ends up. Okay? So, but but the fees
that you collect are going to come into your C. And then you set that up depending on
how you structured and you have to be careful about the employees, if you have
employees, whatever generous benefits you give yourself, your employees get. Now,
there's ways around that. And we won't get into that, but but the point is, is that in the
beginning, if it’s just you, then you can create some very generous benefits for yourself. So
you can have a complete medical reimbursement program, every penny that you pay in
medical can be reimbursed. And so you get to expense that all out. You don't have to pay
self employment tax on that, | believe because it’s everything's expensed, your car, your
insurance, your travel, your per diem, when you're on the road, looking at deals, there's all
kinds of things that you can do to expense out money that you're spending and give
yourself more generous pre tax benefits, that all come out of the fees that you're
collecting, on the deals that you're doing. And then the profits that you're making are alll
flowing through you through your pass through entity, which is your holding company. And
then those don't have self employment tax, and you get to use your own personal
depreciation schedules to write off that passive income and you should be able to get

that you know, as close to zero as you can. So your active income is just going to match
