someone meeting debt service. So | look to them as a good guide on reserves. And so
most lenders in the one to four residential space are going to want to see six months,
Principal interest, taxes, insurance Hoa in a reserve account, to liquid just for emergency
on investment property. So | put in, I'm conservative here, | put in 12. But I'm also not talk,
you know, traditional financial planners might say three to six months and emergency
reserves, but this calculation is based on overall debt service. It's not based on covering
your groceries or your kids tuition someplace. And it doesn't have taxes and insurance in
there. So that's why I've put a 12 month reserve as target. Now they had a lot of liquidity
already. So to cover 12 months, they were asking, Well, how much should | keep in liquidity
versus invest in my future portfolio acquisitions. So this was just again, an idea guide is
well, if you kept 80,000 in liquidity, you could cover all your debt service for 12 months,
that might be a good idea. And then take the rest of your cash and consider investing
that. Now what we're looking at is harvesting this equity to reinvest. And how do you do
that without getting buried under the weight of the additional debt service? That's what
we've all been talking about today. So | said, well, let's just say you go up to 70% loan to
value on the whole portfolio and you've got transaction costs, you could harvest of this 1.1
million $466,000. But your mortgage payments might go up from 4115 a month to 6444 a

month. So you'd have an increase in debt service, you need to cover of 2329 a month.

Russ 1:04:12

Now you're mostly interested, which would be deductible, but you're just using gross

numbers here. You're not adjusting for tax. Right? Correct. Okay, good.

Stephanie Riley 1:04:21
Yeah, so it gets better if you apply the tax situation, but in terms of real life, the challenge

with me applying the tax situation is everybody starting point is no, |

Russ’ 1:04:32

totally understand. | just wanted to make sure that | understood. Yeah, that's better

Stephanie Riley 1:04:37
buying tax to folks because they may already have already paid zero tax. So that's not

money that's going to go in my pocket.
Russ 1:04:43

Yeah, exactly.

Stephanie Riley 1:04:44

So okay, so if the same appreciation rate 5% a year on the same 2,000,005. I'm assuming
this isn't reinvested in a future portfolio, just the current portfolio when they harvest this
equity out. Not only Is it liquid, so if they have an emergency, they've got some money.
Um, but now their equity growth rate jumped from 9.23% to 16.67%. So this capital that
was locked up in the property is now working harder working harder in the property, and
it's going to work harder out of the property. So they've got plenty of liquidity. If they
didn't, this would account for beefing up liquidity, some of that cash out would go to beef
up liquidity to get a 12 month debt service coverage on the portfolio before they had
money left over to invest or do anything else with. So here where we said is they they
could do this, but how are they going to cover that 2329 a month increase from where
they're currently sitting. So if we take an 8% yield on some cash flow investment, and we
talked about all kinds of ideas, one idea, again, sometimes driven by a tax situation, could
be to buy a property even for cash. So sometimes folks come in this particular person's
portfolios in San Diego, California. So the cash flow yield relative to the value of their
portfolio is not great, right? There are other markets that perform much better from a
cash flow standpoint. So this person was thinking well, either or | said, Well, why not? Both
right? diversify that. And yes, push because they wanted to go after they, they, they built
their portfolio, primarily because of appreciation. That's what it afforded them the ability
to do all this. And so they see the power of leverage and appreciation combined. But now,
if you add even a property that you this could be a note, or it could be a property, which
would come with some tax benefits, and you might buy $100,000 property for cash, and

you could generate cash flow in some markets that would meet this,

Russ 1:07:06

let me let me jump in for just one minute on this. So right now, | can rattle off a couple of
places, you know, Chris funks, doing 8% as we're recording this, and who knows what the
future will be Aspen funds is doing 9%. So those are two readily available sources right
now. But you as a syndicator. If you understand how to do this, and you go out and create
investments that cash flow at 8%, you can offer people to take a portion of their portfolio
and put it into the income producing side so they can enjoy the arbitrage. And then you
can have a separate investment, you put them in for equity growth. Okay, because you
can see the bottom line, I'm sure your eyes have already gone there, we're freeing up
$112,000 to put to work. And you can see this is a very sophisticated presentation, it's very

impressive, they're not going to get this from their, you know, their local loan broker. And
strong. And Ginnie Mae is talking about it bringing that to the table. | think with all these
loan mods, if they go that direction, it's only a matter of time before it finds its way into all
the channels. But right now I'm on a on a full dock all dock all the products wonder for
residential, we've got 40 year fixed loans with 10 year interest only. So used to be you go
30 year fixed rate you get that 10 year interest only you make your interest only payment
10 years is up now your loan amortized over 20 years think like 15 year fixed rate your
payment jumps up substantially. Now you get 40 year fixed 10 year interest only after that
interest only period it’s amortized over 30 years you locked in today's rates for 40 years,
you're essentially locked in today’s rates on a 30 year fixed 10 years from now, you know,
and if your plan is cashflow, right, you've got a 40 year fixed, if 10 years from now rates are
higher, and you want to harvest that equity for cash flow or whatever you can sell that
property and now your new buyer coming in, you can offer them a 30 year fixed at today's
rates on a carry back and you've got 30 year fixed still left on your financing. So it's just
another exit strategy to arbitrage for yourself on the sale to make a spread down the

road. That way kind of just leaving your options open.

Russ 48:59
If you bring up a really good point, which is that if you understand that if you are

accumulating a lot of these loans and locking them in for the long term, at some point
down the road, if interest rates turn, they're an asset. Huge. They’re an asset just like you
know, in the old days, you know all the gurus on TV, were teaching FHA assumable loans if
you're old enough to remember that, well, the problem is they quit issuing those loans in
like 86 or 89, or something like that. So you know, they were wonderful if you could find
them. But you know, is like, what is the Gresham's law, you know, when bad loans come
into the market, good loans go into hiding, | mean, pretty soon people were gobbling up
all of those FHA assumable loans and that strategy went away. But you you are literally in
putting something into your portfolio that is can be worth something on the back end.
And most people don't look at debt as an asset but it can be if interest rates move against
you and you've locked it in and so this is why you have to have somebody that’s paying
attention why | was so excited to get Somebody who understood financial strategy and |
know she gets, you can tell by talking to her, she gets it. Because | worked with her for
years | trained her. And she's smarter than me now, but she's living in the weeds of the
actual deals themselves. And so she can see and she knows how to recognize when she
sees a product, she can see the application of the product, right, we all have these
products available, but we don't know how to apply them. So it’s it's like, you know, if
you're a master craftsman or Master, you know, fabricator, whatever you walk into a tool
shop, you can use everything that's available. But if only thing you've ever been trained in
is a hammer, it doesn't matter how well stocked the cabinet is or the shop is you're just

going to be beaten on things, because that's all you know how to do. And so there's so
JO

JO

you would do on your personal finances, that don't have anything to do with your deal.
Your deal is your deal, but it's only part of the syndication. Now you have to write your
document that allows you to do this, but I'm saying there's a way to insert yield into deals
that don't cash flow, simply by offering a yield to that portion of the capital that needs a
yield by making them their own own classification of investor and then arbitrage where

you're making a spread on what they're paying.

22:25

So would Jim be able to, like set a term limit or length? So you've got a month or three
months, or six months or something along those lines. And then you'd go to Jim and say,
Hey, | got this capital, | don't need it for six months. Can you help me? Is that how that
would work?

22:44

Yeah, if you're talking about one month, six months, nine months, you're talking about
classic private money scenarios. And there are multiple ways that you can invest in private
money and get excellent yields. really excellent yields on that on, you know, good sensible,
then if the if the terms are longer, like say, which is probably not true in the in the scenario
that Russell you're talking about, in like 10 years or something like that, then you'd be
really buying a note off the shelf, when you'd be buying to answer your question, you'd be
buying a portion of that note, like, let's say the notes got 23 years left to go on it, you'd
buy, let's say, the first 10 years of that note. And then, you know, there's a whole
mechanics of how that's done the right way.

Russ 23:39

So yeah, you can line up the duration of how long you need the income to what tranche of
payments you buy in the note. And and the other thing is, the notes are liquid, you don't
have to wait till it's retired, you could take it back into the market and sell the note to
other note investors. So when you're done using it for whatever its intended purposes, you
dispose of it just like you would if you put a property in and you said, Okay, | got what |
needed out of that property, | would sell it. It's not that complicated. It's just my
experience has been real estate investors are so mono in the way they think they don't
think outside the deal. They don't think outside equity, and they don’t understand debt at
all. They understood they only understand debt as a borrower, they do not understand
debt as an investor. And so it you know, we've got both sides represented with, you know,

Jim, being in the market of, of acquiring debt, investing in debt, and then you've got
agreement minus out the expenses, whatever netted could be added to or subtracted to
your qualifying income. that's still true. If you're purchasing a property, or you're
refinancing a property that hasn't been on your tax returns for longer than a year. What's
different now is if those properties have been on your tax returns for a full year, the
underwriter wants to look at the Schedule II and see what the actual cash flow is. So if
you've written off test service, and you've written off your management fees, and you've
written off all the repairs you did to the property and all of that, they're not just going to
take 75% of gross rents and minus out property taxes, insurance, mortgage and Hoa,
they're also going to take whatever showing up on your tax returns as expenses and
expense that off there's kind of a double standard if it's been on there longer than a year
versus if you're purchasing or it just you know, showed up on your schedule II. That's again,
where we run into some advanced planning with your with their your clients. CPAs are
your portfolio of we can add back in depreciation that's not an issue. That's a non cash
expense, but we can't add back in those cash expenses. So how borrowers manage those
expenses can have a realistic especially at purchase, because if you purchase the
property and then you do the rehab, and then you come back a year or two later and you
want to cash out refi and that reason Have expense was expensed on your schedule e that
significantly drags down that qualifying income. Same exact scenario. Instead that rehab
expense was capitalized as startup costs and depreciated on the Schedule E. Now | can
add back in it gets its depreciation, so completely changed this story. So because you've
got to go full box to get to that cheap financing now all these little strategies to try to get
people full dock become really meaningful, because it saves them from having to switch
to the higher priced financing but on the invest so that's on the investment side if you
switch on the investment side from full dock to alternate documentation, you can buy
properties based on the cash flow just like you would have commercial property based
based on the debt service coverage ratio, so you can buy a property and as long as the
rental income from that property covers the debt service at a 1.0 or better, there's lenders
that will do those loans all day long up to 80% on a purchase 75% on cash out and they'll
give you interest only options. So that can be a great scenario they'll even do no debt
service coverage ratio so it's like a no income loan, no employment, no income from you,
the borrower and the property doesn't have to generate any income and they'll still do
the loan. So there are still a lot of options it's just the pricing variance so we put a lot of
effort into digging into tax returns if folks have a bunch of properties on a Schedule E or if
they're self employed to try to go full doc if we can if you can't though kind of the yes
there's a big pricing jump but the what makes it easier pill to swallow is the fact that you
can get these interest only options on those investor products so that helps you know
yeah your rates higher but you're only making interest only so cash flow wise the net
difference is not a huge impact. Um Is that for single family single family duplex triplex
four Plex Mm hmm. Yeah, and they're also what's interesting that didn't used to be around

there used to be 30 year fixed 10 year interest only options now 40 year fixed is coming in
plenty of profit. And they buy they buy distressed notes that are underperforming, and
then rehab them something Jim talks about, they buy performing notes at a discount. And
so even though the coupon rate might be 6%, they pay a price that is so low that they're
actually yield is nine or 10 or 11. They make money on the spread every once in a while
they have to foreclose and then they make money typically when they have to foreclose
because they get all the owner's equity. Typically the property can be upgraded and sold.
And of course, the markets hot right now. So you know, you don't have to know how to do
all that stuff unless you decide you want that to be your game. What you have to do is
make sure that you have enough sources for income producing assets that you can stick in
your portfolio, whether they're notes, whether they're deals, whether whatever they are.
But then also to the point where Susan is just understand that depending on your deal,
you might be able to create some of that paper. So at the Jacksonville field trip, we were
talking to Chris funk, who's a real estate developer they develop hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of lots. in Jacksonville. Well he has a syndication where he raises 8% money
he pays his in Investors 8%. And then he uses that to go fund the building of his project,
he is the borrower. And so it's all disclosed. So he's creating the paper, what he didn't
know how to do. And what | showed them in Jacksonville, was | didn't show his buyers, |
showed him how he could take his buyers of his properties, and use the 8% note that
Chris was providing. And same thing, if | could borrow 200,000, out at 4%, and | could
invest it with Chris at 8%. And then | could take the 100,000 and make a down payment
on one of Chris's properties. That’s a win for Chris, that’s a win for the investor. And Chris
has a vested interest in making it all work. They'd never thought of it. And Chris is a very
sophisticated investor, there was nobody on the bus that ever thought of that strategy. To
me, it just seems like so obvious, but it but it apparently is not. So the point is, is is is | want
you to understand that debt is a very powerful tool on both the lending side, as well as the
borrowing side. And you know, you don't have to be the person who's doing it. You can
trade in markets, or you can put debt in your deal. You can create debt and equity even in
your syndication deal. Okay, so let’s get back. | think, hopefully, Kevin, we've addressed
most of your questions. So you know, risk adjusted return is subject to your underwriting,
always compared to what? There's no like subjective rule, but | definitely would not

assume that high yield means high risk could be, and obviously, you have to be concerned
about that if the market is not very liquid, like Chris's market isn't very liquid. Would
people bid that up? Yeah. But that's not his gig. Okay, so anybody else have a question for
Stephanie? Susan, back to Susan? Yeah,

Susan Horst 36:47
| just want to ask about if you put this kind of debt into your syndication, you have to
reveal it in your offering documents. But you, | think you also have to explain it, you have

to pitch it, it seems kind of complicated. Especially if you're going after investors, who, you
the thing is, when you're doing this with your client or having 70, do this with your client on
your behalf, what you're all interested in, is driving to freeing up 100,000, they can put in
your deal. But | want you to not look past that 8% because as you're looking to create, as
you're looking to create opportunities to help your client when you understand the
financial strategies, you can understand that creating a cash flowing investment of 8%. If
you're an equity investor, you think Well, nobody would invested 8%. But right now, | think
there's a lot of people that would invested 8% if it cash flowed at 8%, you know, it was a
good risk adjusted 8%. So don't look past that and just focus on the 100,000. But look at
the 350. That's going into the 8%. Okay, all right, sorry, sorry to interrupt step, but | just

wanted to draw that out to everybody.

Stephanie Riley 1:08:48

Yep. Well, that that’s where | was going. So this 349 at 8% covers the debt service. Now,
this 112 is what we say free money, right? There’s no payment attached to it. You know, if
you invested this 112 to hit it out of the park and lost it all, you still can make all your debt

service coverage.

Russ 1:09:10
Well, any return you get on that 112 is infinite because you have zero cost basis in it. Yes.

I'm borrowed money. It’s not real money. It's not your money.

Susan Horst 1:09:21

Yeah, there was something | said, Oh,

Stephanie Riley 1:09:24
some syndicators I've seen will run to funds, they'll have an Income Fund and an equity
growth.

Russ 1:09:30
That was my point. Exactly. So

Stephanie Riley 1:09:31

you could offer something like that. And then when they're talking with me, and | know
know, it’s already an explanation to get them into a syndication. And on top of that,
you're, you have this layer in there. Do you have any examples of people who've done this

with their syndication?

Russ 37:24

I'm not off the top of my head, you might ask Mauricio. And in terms of what you have to
disclose and how you have to disclose it, that’s a Mauricio question. So you can bring that
to him? Excuse me. As far as explaining it, it's really not that hard to explain. Because,
again, people understand, well, | mean, you know, you borrow it for and invested eight
people see that all the time, you know, you go to the bank, and you put money in a
savings account, they pay you one and you borrow money from the bank, and they
charge you 10 or five, whatever the number is, where they make a mortgage to you for
three, the tripling their money. So people understand that concept. And you'll learn over
conversation, the more you get clear on it, the easier will be to explain but you know, |
mean, trying to explain to somebody how to send an email is complicated. | remember
when people were sending attachments with emails, and | thought you had to have a
degree in tech to be able to do that. And then | actually did it. And | went, Oh, this is a lot
easier than | thought. So just because it's foreign to you doesn't mean it's complicated just
means you haven't mastered it yet. Okay, so anyway, anybody else question? Questions
about residential one to four questions about notes since Jim is here, and even
commercial questions about commercial if you have them? Otherwise, you know, | can
pull some stuff out of Stephanie that | think is relevant, but | want | want to give you guys
a chance because we're all here for you. You're obviously interested because you tuned in.
Maybe you wanted to hear what other people were going to ask. But again, | always say
spend a little bit of time thinking about what what you want to know and come prepared
with questions. It makes this a lot easier for me and, and the subject matter experts. Is
that Scott, Florida, are you waving your hand? Are you just waving a fly? Wave in a fly?
Okay. All right. So well, you know, let me let me let me talk about this. I've talked about
kind of the equity arbitrage. Steph, can you give us kind of the State of the Union on
borrowing and residential back in the day when | was doing it and Stephanie and | were
working together we were in the loan business together. You know, there was no doc you
know, the ninja loans, no income, no job, no assets. It was just like you didn't have to have
anything just fog a mirror and you can borrow. Those days are largely gone. There are
some stated income options, but | don't know you know, what the state That union news,
then they're seasoning requirements. So can you kind of just steffes kind of give an
overview for people who, you know, maybe haven't done much residential, because you're
but but again, you're you're doing this so that you're knowledgeable, when you're talking
to a prospective investor, who may be tapping into a residential property, maybe they

only have a primary residence or a primary and a secondary, or maybe they have one or
&) Susan Horst 10:00

Why do they consider them a liability

Russ 10:03

because they need to be maintained. If they're not throwing off income, you know, oh, the
reason you get to depreciate, the reason you get to depreciate improvements is because
they depreciate. Right? That's the reality. So lender looks at it, and it’s like, oh, this is just
one more thing I'm gonna have to take care of and maintain, or it makes the land less
desirable, because it's something somebody is going to have to get rid of, unless they
want it.

(S) Susan Horst 10:28

Yeah, | actually want it you know, | can see developing some of these old, you know, lots of
character outbuildings into, you know, rehabbing them into really, you know, marvelous
housing. But maybe that's a problem too.

© Russ 10:43

Well, | mean, it's also important just to understand what the the planners have in mind,
right, you don't want to be swimming against that. So if you can find that out kind of
generically without revealing what your your parcel or your plan is, just find out what they
have planned. You know, so look into that, as well. But again, talk to Robert, this is a good
question to bring up there too. And between the Brad and Stephanie, | think you'll
probably get some good leads on lenders you can speak with that can tell you a little bit
about more what the deal needs to look like. And again, this brings up the the important
point, whether you're going to go buy your very first house, whether you're buying an
investment property, you're buying apartment, building or doing anything, you should
always be talking with your lender, constantly, just like you should be talking to your tax
person constantly. Because the two things you're managing are your borrowing power,
and your taxes. And then if those two people are educated in asset protection and estate
planning, they will actually help you recognize when you're doing something that is
creating a liability or disrupting your plan in some way. I'm spending a lot of time with
Stephanie, Mike pine, Kevin Day, Damian Lupo. And | just adding a new guy that | just got
done interviewing, which | haven't even told Stephanie about super excited about coming
up with cross training them. So they really understand when they're looking at
somebodies financials, how to recognize everything, not just their own niche, they can't

give advice, but they can say they can create awareness and then push you over to
they came from you, obviously |, I, I'm going to endorse I'm going to endorse the hand
that said me so if you're sending me clients, I'm going to turn right back around and and
show them something like this and send them right back to you for whatever investment
options you have. And if they know that then they can say okay, you know, then I'm going
to invest this 140,000 in the Income Fund, and I'm gonna invest 112,000 in the equity
Growth Fund. And this may not have a distribution for two years or five years, and I'm
okay with that. But | know that I've got to get monthly distributions or quarterly
distributions, some kind of trickle of distributions on this 340 so that | can cover my

increased debt service.

© Russ 1:10:24

Okay, so I'm gonna, in the words of the White House, I'm going to call a lid on this. We're
10 minutes over, but | think that was well worth the price of admission. | feel badly that |
didn't get to it sooner. So Kevin, thank you for the reminder. And sorry about about the the
jibber jabbering | forgot that that was waiting for us. But but I'm pretty sure that was all
well worth an extra 10 minutes of our time, don’t you agree? Pretty impressive. So we
continue to work on assembling a Resource Network, a team of mentors, advisors, service
providers that can help you grow your syndication business at a much higher level. Right,
it's one thing to go out there and just slop around with your deal, like everybody else does.
But when you bring financial strategies when you bring a network, when you are not
looking for how can | find money to put in my deal, but how can | find deals and people to
serve my customers better? That's the mentality you have to take to the market. If you
want to be successful raising money, the money isn't there to solve your problem you're
bringing, you're there to solve the money's problem. And so Stephanie, and the rest of the
people in our lending group, the your deals, the people who are in our opportunity
showcase in our provider network. These are all tools. Oh, we got bonus time for Brad,
that's great, awesome. Is is they’re all here to help you grow your business. And you don't
have to figure this stuff out. Right, you can just find somebody that’s equity rich, and say
you really need to talk to Stephanie Riley. And you can now see what she’s gonna do. And

we she and | are going to create more content. | wish | could,

© Stephanie Riley 1:12:03
| will tell you this is probably the hardest one I've had, because they had just refinanced
their current rates are super low. So it and they didn't have a lot of other debt, most of the
time people come in, and that debt service variance is almost zero, because they're
refinancing out of a high rate to a lower rate. And | could get into the other strategies, but
their strategies to reallocate where they're sending cash flow right now, to a different

place. Yeah. So that the net impact on their cash flow is zero. And | wish | had had that
Okay, so that was a lot on that. But since that was the only pre submitted question, you
you win the prize, because you get extra love. So that's the lesson to everybody, you know
if. But with that said, I've got the chat open, if somebody has a question or you want to
wag your finger at me, | think | can see everybody or almost everybody, if you if you have
a specific question. And again, Stephanie's expertise is residential one to four. And so one
of the areas that you can work with her in or draw upon her knowledge, is when you're out
there talking to people who are equity rich, and there's a whole lot of that out there right
now. And they're looking for a source of funding to invest into your syndication, and you
have a yield a return on investment that is higher than their cost to borrow, don't assume
that they're smart enough to figure out they can make money on the spread. In other
words, you know, someone pulls a couple $100,000 out of a property that they own with a
lot of equity in it, and then use that to invest in your deal. And if the money costs them 4%,
your deal is going to yield them 12, that's a plus eight. And if you know you're going to be
going after that kind of money, you might create some cash flow at three and a half. So
they are breakeven on their cash flow as a way, or you can, you know, take advantage of
when Jim Griffin does, and you can have them take a chunk of their proceeds and buy a
high yield note and create free and clear so that, you know, prototypical arbitrage

concept | put out there all the time, borrow 200,000, out at four, invest 100,000 at eight
and have 100,000 that has no payment associated with it. And that can go into a
development project or something where you're maybe going to get a 25% annualized
return, but you're not going to go from cash to asset to cash for three years. And you don't
want to have a payment in that interim. So that's how these things kind of blend together.
So lending is both taking out a loan, but it’s also making a loan. And those two things go
together. So Jim, that’s I'm really glad you're here. And since we're here and Jim, you've
done a lot of real estate fairly creative real estate, you have any thoughts on any of that? |

don't feel obligated. But if you do,

Jim Griffin 17:51

no, | don't really actually have anything to add on the topic of the the the land that
beyond what

Russ 17:58

not just the land, just just | think we've moved on from the land part, just the idea of of
thinking outside your deal. In other words, | just did a Jacksonville field trip. | don't think
anybody here was on that Jacksonville field trip. But during the bus ride from Jacksonville
to Ocala, which was like two hours, Robert and | took turns, he did personal investment
philosophy. And | told a updated version of the famous free duplex story. And | was just

explaining to people how to accelerate your financial performance by rearranging your
one handy. But that happens more times than this. This is probably the hardest type of

case | get. |

Russ 1:12:49

think it was great staff, | think he did a great job. Like | said, | got a | got a call the lead
only because we're 15 minutes over, but we're gonna do it again, right. Every month, we're
gonna do this. If you have questions, right? Obviously, you can, you know, reach out and
talk to Stephanie directly. But make sure you come to these sessions with your questions. |
know, here you came, you didn't even know what you didn't know. So hopefully, we've
opened up a lot more questions. But this isn’t a one and done. So we continue to be
available to you to help you with all this stuff. But there's a lot of opportunity in
repositioning equity right now because the marketplace is full of equity. And money is dirt
cheap. You just have to have somebody who knows how to tell the story and get the deals
done. And we've been working really hard on creating that for you. So hopefully this is
helpful. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for your time, Stephanie. Great job.
Jim. Thank you for your contribution. Great questions, everybody. We'll see you next time.
Thanks, guys. Thank you. Thank you.
and found out what it needed to do. We were sharing with them the idea what we were
going to do anyway, they didn't give us the deal. They turned around and got a rezone
and built a commercial building on it. So you want to be careful about revealing your plan.
But sometimes my point is, and again, this is not a really lender plan. This is more of a
deal, plan, bring it up with Robert. But sometimes you can get some things contractually
into the deal, that it's your deal. But the seller has to do some things before you close so
that you can get the lending. Okay, so just be aware of that. Now, Brad, | see you waving.
So | was going to my next question was going to be who on this call is actually done some
land deals or land loans that may have some inputs? So Brad, you're, you're wagging your

finger so you're up.

© Brad Niebuhr 08:29

| have not personally done them. But | know a lot of my friends. And is this is this Susan, is

this property in Washington somewhere?

() Susan Horst 08:36

Well, yeah,| mean, ideally, because that's how what, that's the market. | know the people

that would want to live there. Okay, live here.

© Brad Niebuhr 08:45

So | do a lot of my friends are farmers in eastern Washington. | can get some of their
connections they use | know. So like one option would be. So if it’s 100 acres or something,
and the house is actually still part of that which most of the houses have been sown, like
taken off of the farmland. If you took that house off, it's crazy. And | think they're some
kind of government loans all my friends have gotten and then there’s one payment a year.
And then the rates and terms are absolutely crazy. Ridiculous, like what they give you. It’s
absolutely nothing but you make one payment a year on that. So if you split the house,
I've got a normal loan for the house. It might make sense to lease to farmers. | know a lot
of our farms around here do leased land from other people. So | can figure out who they
use for those lenders and get that to Yeah, and that might help but that's that’s | know
when it and just like Stephanie was saying the outgoings and any other buildings unless
it's like a hay storage building. They they will have problems it just has to be straight up

farmland. So splitting everything else off.

© Russ 09:55

The buildings are actually not an asset. They're a liability. Yeah. You
Russ 58:39

Yeah, well Gil's a real estate agent. | don't know if you're asking on behalf of a client or on
behalf of yourself, but go ahead and share your screen stuff. Okay, I'm filling while you do

that, don't be engaged in the conversation.

Stephanie Riley 58:51

It will not take me long. Okay, there you go. You guys see this, this whole chart thing? We
see it? Okay, make sure I'm sharing the right screen. Okay, so this was a, this was this
morning's consultation. Um, so this is they give me a so your clients, you might send them
my way and say, Hey, you know, | know you want to invest, you know, talk to Stephanie
and her team, and they can show you some strategies of how to access capital, possibly
for free to invest in your deal. And so this is just a snapshot of their financial showing the
portion of their income that's coming in from active employment, like they get up, they go
to work every day, versus passive, what's coming in from their portfolio of real estate. And
obviously, the goal is for the passive to to outperform the active so you know, and
eliminate that. And then this is just showing them security wise that in their case, which is
not common, but in their case, their passive income exceeded their liabilities out of the rat
race. Yeah, this was their their debt service. And then that's a snapshot of their leverage
ratio. So they have $2 million worth of real estate, they've got 940,000 in debt and 1.1
million in equity, their 45% is financed. This chart just shows you that in a picture that
they've got all this equity, you know, a million dollars in equity, exposed to the market, if if
the comps come in lower than poof, it's gone, is not liquid, if they did have an emergency,
because a big portion of their income is active income, if if they, if they lost their jobs, or
one of them lost their job, it would be substantially harder to qualify to cash out this equity
and have liquidity to pay bills. So anyway, we talked about that, and that this equity is not
doing much in terms of generating cash flow. This is saying if they're $2 million portfolio of
real estate appreciated at 5%, their current equity growth rate, so the equity growth on
the amount of capital they have tied up in this portfolio is 9.23%. So we're looking, | start
out looking at security and what's locked up. Another thing with securing a portfolio is
liquidity. And | get asked a lot like how much leverage should | have? And how much
reserves should | have? And | think, right. When we're talking about securing a portfolio,
we're really talking about securing the cash flow so that we don't lose control. Yes,
leverage has its benefits. But if you get nothing if you can’t make the debt service and you
lose the property, and Jim takes your property, then it’s all over. Right? So it's securing the
cash flow. So you're saying, as an investor or your client is saying, how much leverage
should | have to make sure | can meet that debt service? Well, the lender is asking that
same question, right? How much leverage Should | give this person to make sure they can
make their debt service payment? And my thought is, well, the lenders spend a lot of time

money research, they've got tons of stats to kind of know what the likelihood is of
in Stephanie's wheelhouse either. So probably Anton, we may want to roll that forward
stuff to one that he’s on or asked him to chime in on it in the forum. But But basically,
when lenders lend, they are looking at their buying streams of cash flow, they're looking
for a yield, and they're looking for a stream of monthly payments, Jim knows that very
well, because there's a lot of math that goes into figuring out what that stream of
payments is worth. When you buy a piece of land, there is no stream of income. And so
they're going to look at the value of the land, but land is not very liquid. And so and they
can't take an assignment of rents, from the standpoint of being able to take that income.
So so it's going to be largely about the balance sheet and credit worthiness of the
borrower. And it's probably not going to be a very generous LTV. And it’s probably not
going to be for a very long term. Having done some development, where we borrowed
against the land, and then had a disruption in our equity raise because the economy blew
up and then not being able to borrow money. We lost some land to foreclosure. So
personally, I'm not a big fan of it. Another way to do it, is to cross collateralize or borrow
against a property that does have cash flow, you'll get better terms, and then use the
money to pay cash. | understand the interest or the desire to use debt over equity,
because equity is more expensive. But equity is a little bit more forgiving. It doesn't feel
like that when you have to call investors and tell them the deal is not working out. So well.
Does it feel like they're more forgiving? But you know, they're taking it on the chin right
along with you, because you're partners, whereas a lender becomes an adversary in a
default environment. And then everybody loses everything. So it's just a personal thing.
And you could probably also bring this question to the Ask the mentors with Robert on
the deal side, because he’s much more experienced. But | can tell you the lessons that we
learned pre 2008 when we went down to do Belize no debt, no debt. | mean, we don't
mind borrowing against productive assets, but non productive assets. So Steph, | don't

know if you have anything you want to chime in on that?

Stephanie Riley 03:55

Not much. How much land? Is it like acrage, like 10 acres, 50 acres, 100 acres or just a lot?

Susan Horst 04:04

Well, it’s unclear. I'm in the early stages of figuring out how | would do a development for
active seniors surrounding farmland. An easy way into it is to buy some land that has a
farmhouse in it and rent out the farmhouse and then | do have an income stream right
away. While | develop the property the way | really long term see it? Yes. So another thing
that I've heard is that the organic farmers in my area are wanting access to more
farmland that they don't necessarily have to own and would be willing to rent it. If

someone else would buy conventional ag land and then you know it takes a while leaving
Stephanie who helps people borrow, and again, a lot of your investors who you may or
may not realize they like your deal, but they don't have enough cash. They're going to
have equity available on their balance sheet, but it would never occur to them, just like
they could have left an employer and have a bunch of money in the stock market to be
nervous about it. But it would never occur to them that, that a rollover 401k could be self
directed, because they've never heard of such a thing. So you know, you have to
understand how to look at somebody's financials, or ask the right questions, because
they're not going to just open up their financials to you. And this is where if you can get
them to just through a few comments or questions, and you say, Hey, why don't you talk
to this Strategy Group. And they may be able to give you some ideas about how to make
your balance sheet perform better. And maybe there's some money there that you would
actually be able to invest without risk. And then you'd got to do the hypothetical clothes.
If if they could show you a way where you could invest in this deal, without changing your
cash flow? Is that something that'd be interesting to you? You know? And the answer is
yes. | mean, literally, if you understand what we're saying, If | could show you a way to
invest in this deal for free, would you do it? versus Yes, but how can you do that? Well,
that's that's a trade secret. But assuming | could do it, is there any reason you wouldn't
want to do? Is there any other objection? Is there any other concern you have about this
deal? Well, no. Well, you literally can show them how to do it for free, you pulled $200,000
out of a property, which is the bank's money at 4%. And then you cover it with a note at
8%. And then you put $100,000 into the deal, how much of their money did they put in
your deal? And how much of a payment did they have? They didn't put any of their own
money, they put the bank money in, and they don't have a payment, it's 100%. Free. Now

they're taking risk. But on a risk adjusted basis, it's pretty darn good.

© Stephanie Riley 26:42
If it would be helpful. | could share my screen. And this is a real client scenario. Their
names aren't on here, obviously. And you guys could see how my conversations go with

what could be your clients and how the math works out for them.

© Russ 27:02

Yeah, let's, let's do that stuff. Before we do that. | want to answer Kevin, Kevin's question is,
is what is the risk on the 8%? And of course, the answer is, it depends. It depends on what
the answer The answer is. But Jim, let's talk specifically about notes. And, and and Kevin,
I'd encourage you, anybody who's watching this, you know, now or in the future, to go
listen to the episode we did with Jim, on the real estate guys radio show, because we
talked about this and to order report, Private Note, private notes or private note, | don't

remember. It’s either private note or private notes at Real Estate guys. radio.com. And
JO

you'll get his free report or it's in the free report library. But at the end of the day, it’s a

collateralized note. So Jim, you want to expound on that just a little bit?

27251

Sure. So obviously, there are a number of things that affect how much risk you have in a
note, and one of the things that certainly affects it is the investment to value. So this is
why there are different rates, you know, when you are thinking about buying a home, and,
you know, you're thinking about putting 10% down versus putting 20% down on your own
personal home, the bank has got two different interest rates for those two different
scenarios. And that’s because even from the bank's point of view, and you're now the
bank, well that they've got more coverage in the one scenario and less than the other
scenario. When we're investing in notes, we love to buy notes where our investment value
is 70% or less. And sometimes we can buy notes where our investment value is more in the
50% range. So when we're buying a note that has that kind of a profile, there's plenty of
room for things to go wrong. And we still feel pretty comfortable that if the wheels come
off, we're gonna get our money back. So that's one of the things there are other factors as

well. But that will be a key example.

Russ 29:09

Yeah. So the point is, is far as risk risk is the investment, not the yield 8% by definition isn't
risky. Neither is 20% for that matter. | mean, | can show people with just amortization
appreciation, very conservative, conservative leverage and conservative cashflow and tax
breaks that you can get 25% internal rate of return on real estate all day long. People
think oh, 20 to 25%. That's risky. Well, no, it's really not. You just don't know how to do the
math. So if I'm loaning, you know, making a note a promissory note to some homeless guy
with no job and no collateral, and it's unsecured 8% Super risky. Probably could create
those notes all day long, but they wouldn't be worth the paper they're written on. Whereas
in this case, you know, we're talking about 8% it's actually probably more when you factor
in discounts and whatnot, but let's just call it 8%. You're talking 2030 50%, protective
equity, collateralized, you know, it's whatever your underwriting, | think | think the point is
for everybody is that there, there are yields available out there. And the reason you don't
hear about them anywhere is because the people who write the news and the people who
play the game and talk about it on TV, all are doing everything in huge mass volume, if it’s
not a commodity, if it isn't traded on, you know, computer operated exchanges, where
people all over the globe can play, they don't talk about it. But we're street rats, we
operate in the crevices of the economy down on Main Street, and there's these deals are
all over the place. So he says, | guess a better question would be how available or easy is
it to find the 8% yield without undue risk? Jim, if | gave you $100,000 right now, instead, |
Ollee

August 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call
on Lending with Russe...

ww Fri,8/209:40AM  @ 1:13:48

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

loans, equity, lender, people, stephanie, deal, portfolio, property, investors, note, yield, invest,

money, syndication, land, question, cash flow, cash, debt service, jim

SPEAKERS

Russ, Susan Horst, Jim Griffin, Brad Niebuhr, Stephanie Riley

© Russ 00:02

Hey everybody, this is Russ, welcome to syndication mentoring club. This is ask the mentor
is brand new, this is our inaugural kind of ask the lender, we Stephanie Riley. And we may
rotate in commercial lenders as well, too, but she was who was available. And so that's
what we're going to do. And we have Jim Griffin, who is a mentoring club member, but
also quite experienced. So I'm sure between the two of them and my background in
lending, | think we're gonna end up having a pretty good session. So this is our August
2021. inaugural ask the mentors for syndication mentoring club on the topic of lending,
with Stephanie Riley and company. So | think we only had one pre submitted question,
which | believe Susan came from you, and I'm not 100% sure that we're going to be able

to answer Stephanie, did you get it? Did you see it come in?

© Stephanie Riley 00:53

| did. | just saw it earlier today. | think it was a question about land loans.

© Russ 00:58

Yeah. Is that right? Yeah. And so | don't have a ton of experience with that other than

Robert, and I've done some land deals together. But I'll tell you what | know. It’s not really
two rental properties, and they've had enough landlording. And they still like real estate,
but they don't want to do it themselves. And that's why they're talking to you. Or maybe
you're going to do a deal that's bigger and better than something they could do on their
own. And that’s why they're talking to you, but they're going to source the money through
their equity. So and Steph has a report to call that you can read cash out at Real Estate
guys radio.com available in the in the in the | was gonna say the bookstore in this special
reports library. So Steph, you have some some updates for us just in terms of

understanding the State of the Union in terms of underwriting loans.

Stephanie Riley 41:02

Yeah, so the biggest thing to know is all of those all stock alternative documentation
loans, they've pretty much gone away from the agencies from the Fannie Mae, Freddie
Mac from the conventional financing. So if you want to get the super cheap rates, you've
got to go full block, you've got to be able to document if you're self employed, that means
tax returns, that's where most people get caught up and get stuck as self employed
borrowers. And so all of the alt doc options, they're still available. That's the spread,
though between what you know spread between a full doc and a stated income loan used
to not be that big. Now, that risk of those alternate documentation is in the lenders mind
is much bigger. So the spread of pricing is a larger gap than it used to be. But so you've
got the conforming conventional 30 year fixed full doc loans, that's going to get you the

best pricing used to be you could get up to 90% loan to value on a cash out refi

Susan Horst 42:15

ona stated income loan.

Stephanie Riley 42:16

With that now, even ona primary residence, single family home, you're capped at an 80%
loan to value for max cash out on the first loan, then you could come behind it with a line
of credit if you wanted to. But you've got to just stop at that 80%. If you go alternate
documentation, what a lot of people | think don't realize is you do still have options, those
options are still available. So for self employed borrowers, a lot of times it can be bank
statement loans, where the lenders collecting 12, maybe 24 months of business bank
statements, and they're looking at those recurring deposits, they're averaging them out,
depending on the type of business they're expensing a factor to come up with what your
qualifying income is going to be for the file. There's one year tax returns loans, there's
different ways to document that income. Then on the investment property side, same

same thing applies it used to be, we could just take 75% of gross rents on the lease
someone. But the two things that you're managing constantly is your tax. And because
once you've taken an act, as Tom wheelwright always says, If you want to change your
tax, you got to change your facts, you can't show up after the fact and try and have a tax
strategy, you have to be ahead of it. Well, the same is true with lending. If you show up
with a deal, and you're in contract, then your deal is your deal, you can't really change
what it is, you can't change your approach. You can't go change your financials, because
your financials are what your financials are. If with a few strategic moves you created
created more liquidity, better debt to income ratios and stronger looking balance sheet.
There are ways to actually rent assets and put them on your balance sheet so that you
come in stronger. This is what this other guy was talking to one of the strategies he uses.
And so but if you don't have that ahead of time, if you don't begin with the end in mind,
then you're only going to get what you're eligible for based on the snapshot that you
created haphazardly, instead of proactively. So that’s a great takeaway. And again, | don't
know, Steph, if | stole all the thunder, if you have anything you want to add on that, or if

that, if that kind of made the bias, especially in residential one to four.

Stephanie Riley 13:30

Yeah, it's very true. | know, | know, we're deep dive on Susan's scenario here. But another
example is, if you were to take if you did convert something to like a single family home,
and then you could break that lot off and say that home is only on a half acre, one acre,
and it's its own thing. Well, now, depending on the comps in the area, if you have some
other comps to bring value into that single family home, maybe on the rest of the land,
you may not get as highly leveraged as favorable terms, but you could cash out refi and
lever up just that single family home and be able to get to more of it. But knowing that
that single family home lender isn't gonna want to see on their lot that they're lending on
the sheds and other things, you can kind of piece it together. Yeah, | mean, the same is
true in purchase transactions. This comes up a lot, actually where people will purchase a
property for cash, and then want to turn around and cash out refi it it’s so common. And
the while they can do that, oftentimes if we're able to plan ahead of time how they
approached that purchase, it can kind of roll out the red carpet for the cash out refi
afterwards. So just to piggyback on what Russ said is yes. The advanced planning really
helps. And the tax if you if you're self employed, and yeah, have the tax, you know, trying
to write everything off planning, when and how you write that off can kind of time up so
that you close escrow on your purchase, or your big cash out refinance, or, you know,
harvesting all the equity out of your portfolio, and then after the fact, take all those tax

breaks you want to take.

Russ) 15:32
JO

need an 8% yield? How hard would that be for you?

30:59

That was actually a very good question. Because it is getting hard. Just as when we're
looking for real estate, you know, there's a lot of money chasing the deals, whether it's
multifamily or single family. So too, with notes, there's a lot of money chasing the notes.
So it’s becoming harder for me to come forward with notes that | feel good about, | am

working very hard to do that right now. It’s not so easy at this moment.

Russ 31:29

Okay. So that's good to know. And that’s what happens, right? Anytime that there is
something that is, is valuable, people start bidding it up, which means that the yields go
down. Of course, there are opportunities to create your own market, you know, that's what
we're talking about doing it nbv, where we're going to sell on owner carry back and create
a note and then take it to Jim, and he'll be very happy to stick it out through his network
because they're starved for yield. So the flip side is opportunity. You know, coming back to
like Susan situation, if she were able to subdivide a piece of land, say, Okay, I'm gonna
buy 100 acres of land, but | don't need 80. For my project, I'm going to take the 20 acres,
and I'm going to subdivide it into one acre lots, and I'm going to sell it on owner carry
back and create yield. You know, that. And then if | have to foreclose, boom, | just take the
property back, and I'm right there. So there's people who make a whole living doing
nothing but generating cash flow on subdividing land, they buy big land, subdivide it, sell
it on or carry back and generate cash flow. So there's a lot of creative ways to do it. Yeah,
| mean, you know, | wouldn't, | wouldn't go take out a big loan and go, Oh, | can just waltz
into the market and find whatever you got to like, everything else we said was Susan, you
know, you're going to check all your assumptions first. And that's why we have we have a
mix before | put precious equity out, | soent a lot of Steph knows because she was on the
other end of this. | wanted to have at least four or five people that had opportunities to
provide this kind of yield. So we have four Plex Investment Group, they do developer
loans, and | think they were paying 15% annualized six month term notes back by the
land, it's undeveloped, it’s permitted and ready to develop. If you had to take the property
back, there's no cash flow, but you could finish the development, you'd get it at a big
discount. It's backed by the balance sheet of the operator. So higher risk higher return, you
have Aspen funds, one of the people in our provider network, and they're offering a 9%
yield. And they're basically running a syndication of notes. So there are a guy like Jim and
they just, they buy these notes, and they they feel very comfortable, they can offer their

investments of preferred return their investors or preferred return of 9% and still make
balance sheet. And a big part of that is repositioning equity. And it's kind of a lost art
because for a long time, there was no equity out there to reposition but the last 10 years, a
lot of equity has happened. And number two, you know, | dropped out of that business
and we weren't really actively doing it. And so | just wasn't something we were talking
about. But | started looking way back in 2016. With the second presentation in the future
of money and wealth, which you can see what kind of introduced that arbitrage concept
is a way to purchase precious metals. And it was kind of the beginning of the idea of
what's going to become the precious equity presentation. But my point is, is that being
creative in getting deals done for yourself, being creative and managing your own
balance sheet is one level of expertise and you should do it. But the next level is learning
how to look at your customer local look at your potential investor and understanding
what they have to work with and also understanding the tools you have to work with. And
Jim, your expertise. And the thing that you do is something a lot of people really don't
understand most indicators, thinking only in terms of equity. They really don't think in
terms of debt, except for being a borrower. They never think of being a person to buy. But
if you've got if you've got a situation where you need to create some yield. Right. So I'm
gonna go back to this scenario I've got, I've got a borrower, I've got a prospective investor,
and I'm raising money, and they're going to pull equity out of a property and they're going
to have a burn rate, they're going to have a payment, you can either show them how to
invest in a note, or you could take a portion of the proceeds in your fund, invested in high
yield, and then use a portion of that yield, to pay out to investors who would be in their
own class. And that would be a discussion you'd have to have with Mauricio. But in that
class, anybody that bought into shares in that class would receive part of their return as a
payout. And you'd find that payout not from your deal. But from actually arbitrage by
buying a high yield note, through Jim or his network, or something like that. Did you guys

tracking with me on that?

Susan Horst 21:01

tracking, but | can't repeat what you just said, | mean, | followed it all the way through

Russ 21:07

Let's say you raise a million bucks, and you've got 200,000 of that million bucks that
needs a yield. And you've got to pay them 4%. So you take 200,000 out of that, or you
take, take 100,000 out of that raise, you over raise from what you need that extra 100,000,
and you invested at 8%. And now you're paying them out 4% very conservatively, and
you're generating a little bit of operating cash flow in your fund while you're working on
your project. So what I'm saying is, just be aware that there are streams of cash flow that

you can produce on the balance sheet by managing the equity that you've raised, just like
it fallow for it to convert and be certified organic and I'm guessing | can get some kind of
tax breaks for doing that. So it's just a hold period. And then | can, | can rent out the
majority of the land to the farmers. So | can see a few strategies.so | thought, well, it’s

asked the lenderso I'll ask.

& Russ 05:18

You want to check your assumptions on the tax side, you want to visit with a CPA who's
knowledgeable in that, you can check with a lender who's experienced in land, you know,

you can check with Anton to see if he does it, or to see if he knows somebody, | will,

& Stephanie Riley 05:34
| will email you a link to a lender that specializes in ag lending and does land loans. My,
my experience like searching for answers for people in this area is you want to talk to the
lender first, before you start assuming you can get financing, because some of them really
do not like those outbuildings those sheds those houses, you may have experienced that.
Yeah. And some of them may be okay with it. So you just got to find the right lender,
sometimes it's the local bankers who understand your market and the types of properties
out there that are willing to make exceptions for you. So if you do run in, I'll send you a link
to this lender. But if you run into a snag with the outbuildings, and sheds and stuff, you
might check with a local banker to get an exception for that, because they'll know your

ared.

© Russ 06:31

And the other thing, too, is, obviously, you know, you want to check, but what | started to
say was you want to check out your assumptions, you know, on the tax side and on the
lending side. But the other thing is to understand that if you run up against a block, mean,
you know, for example, if it's zoned a certain way, or there's a certain structure on it, and
that makes it unattractive to the lender, any buyer is going to have that same problem,
which means the seller has a problem. So if you can get the seller to say, Hey, you know if
you will get this rezone, or if you will do this or that and of course, you probably know this
gets into the deal side, Robert and | lost the deal early on, because we went and found a
little house. | don’t know Steph, if you remember that little D'Amico house, that was a little
green house over there on the corner, a born and white road. And we went there and it
was what had happened is this whole area used to be an orchard in Santa Clara Valley.
And the family just kept the original farmhouse. And they live there until the parents died,
the four brothers inherited the house. And we wanted to turn it into an office but we need

to get it zoned commercial. So | went down and | visited with the county planners office
Intel. But that's someone who's feeding you the Intel has to understand what you're trying
to accomplish and have some savvy when it comes to investing. Or they're not going to
recognize they'll be looking right at a product that would be perfect for you, but they can't
connect the dots because they don't understand what you do. They know what they do.
And you can't access what they have because you don't understand what they do you
know what you're trying to do. Having somebody who understands what you're trying to
do, and can recognize opportunity for you when they see it. That's the USP when you have

a financial strategist sitting in the role of a mortgage consultant, but mortgage strategist,

© Stephanie Riley 54:53
yeah, even the account reps at the the lenders who are who have these loans in portfolio
When they make these loans, and the account reps job is to call on people like me to
explain their product, | get all the account reps the other day, and he's like, | do not
understand, man, this product is just we are moving so much of this product. And | don't
get why these investors want this. He had no idea why like, it totally makes sense. This is a
great product, | get exactly why they're gobbling this up. But they don't even even being in
the product. His job was to sell it and he didn't know the benefit of it to an investor, or why
they would even want, you know, he's like, why would you need a 40 year fixed? You're not
going to keep the loan 40 years? And why would you pay interest only that's just going to

take forever to pay off the loan.

© Russ 55:44

So Gil's asking staff if it's condos, and a couple things, you know, back in the day, we had
to worry about where condos were warrantable or non warrantable? | don't know if that's

still a thing. I'm guessing it probably is still a thing. It’s a

& Stephanie Riley 55:58

it's a thing as to why it’s non warrantable is a thing. So there are lenders that will lend

© Russ 56:04

Well, let's make sure Does everybody know what we're talking about? We're talking about

warrantable, not workable, Susan shaking her head. So explain that first step.

© Stephanie Riley 56:11

So warrantable, meaning that the percentage of in the condo association, the percentage
that is to investors versus primary occupants, they don't like to see that in this Hoa, all the

units in that Hoa are 100% investors,

Russ 56:34

it's basically a glorified apartment building. And they're concerned about the quality of
the collateral, the tenant, all of that. So you have to be careful when you're buying
investment condos, you have to understand the mix of the entire complex before you
close. And then you also have to be aware that on the back end of that that mix could
change. And so you may go from being in a warrantable situation where you can achieve
the best financing to where you go non warrantable through no fault of your own, right,
you're just there, but a greater percentage of investors came in and all of a sudden, your
non warrantable. And then what do you get dinged on non warrantable. stuff. proximate

are as is it interest rate LTV, or will they just flat not do it?

Stephanie Riley 57:18

| it depends on the lender. So typically, the challenge is that you have to switch lenders
and six switch loan programs. And then, you know, you go out of that conforming
conventional into these other lenders, I'm seeing spreads one to 2% spreads between
being able to go conforming conventional to being able to to having to go with these

alternate products.

Russ 57:47

Okay, so | totally soaced out and and Kevin just reminded me you were going to show an
example. On your screen. Yeah, we only have we're going to go over a little bit, but | want
to deliver on that because | think that that's going to be worth looking at. So Steph, let me
empower you as co host. And then | know Gil, we probably didn't completely answer your
question. His specific question, Steph? Was that that product with the 10 year, the 40 year
loan with 10 year interest only and then 30 year amortization. Is that available to condos?

Yes, it is. If there weren't double? Yeah, I'm

Stephanie Riley 58:24
not sure about the non warrantable. I'd have to dig into the guidelines to see if they do
non warrantable condos. Okay, | know the wheel if you really have gone warrantable |

don't know if they do it on that product. So I'd have to get into that.
many things you you can find young people that have credit scores and incomes, you can
partner with them on deals to create equity on fixer uppers or whatever. And then you
work through them to build a relationship with their parents who can become partners,
we had one guy that he started out bringing down payments and partnering with people
that had credit. Well, first, he started out seeking down payments and using his credit,
then he got tapped out. But he had cash. So then he started using down payments his
money and partner with people that had credit and they were doing these equity shares
in single family, then he tapped out on that side. And so then he said, Okay, now I'm going
to go find people that have credit. And I'm going to go find people that have cash, and
I'm going to put them together. And I'm going to get a piece of that. And he just kept
going. And so having a great relationship with his residential lender was super important
because he could get the best financing, the safest financing, if you will, because all the
consumer protections are in residential one to four, right? When you when you graduate
into commercial, nobody's looking over your shoulder, right, you're considered to be a big
boy or girl at that point in time. And you can't get these, you know, these extended terms.
And so, you know, | think residential one to four is a great, great place to play. And again,
you know, you take a private depending, you know, you go by do a land deal, you know,
there's a big need out there for affordable housing. That's why we're so excited about
these guys that have figured out how to do build to rent, when you value engineer a
product, so that it is inexpensive to build, and it is inexpensive to maintain, you're meeting
the unique needs of a housing investor, the same time you're building something based on
what the tenant is looking for, and what they're willing to pay for, which is very different
than what a homeowner wants. You know, | mean, with a homeowner, if you have 120
square foot bedrooms, you get credit. With with a with a tenant, you don't a 90 square
foot bedroom, and 120 square foot bedroom is exactly the same to attendant. It's just how
many bedrooms? You know, in some we looked at properties that had no car or no
garages, because they didn't get a premium for a garage. Well, owner occupants gonna
want a garage tenant, no, they want a fence, they want a yard for their dog, when they
can have an apartment, but they don't care about the garage. | mean, it was just amazing
the things you learn. So I'm not suggesting everybody get all enamored of single family
and go do single family. But it is a very active space right now, especially if you live in an
area where there supply supply demand imbalance, and you can find little infill projects to
do. There's ways to partner with people that only have credit scores. There's ways to use
mortgages to help people reposition equity into whatever deal you're offering, as long as
you'd make sense. There's ways to interject high yield debt into your portfolio. Of course,
the arbitrage concept | talked about all the time, you know, the list goes on and on. So,
but it all starts with having somebody who, who understands what you're trying to do.
Because if you don't even know what to ask, you can't show up to a mortgage broker and
say, you know, | need a 40 year amortized loan 10 year interest only, you know, all Doc, me

You don't even know what to ask, right? You have to have somebody feeding you that
