JO

takes you longer to raise, you just replace your own capital or some part of your own capital. So that's another
possibility. Any deal runs the risk of it getting stale, if people see it for a couple of months, and it's not getting
funded. Right, then pretty soon it gets a stigma. So you got to be careful about that. We're going through a process
with the team here tomorrow about launching our next initiative here. And being very, very strategic, it would be
super easy just to go out and go to a warm database and go, Hey, but that's not going to get us the best result.
Instead, we really have to have a diligent and thoughtful and strategic campaign. So it rolls out in a way that it gets
funded, it gets funded quickly, and everybody's happy about it, and it creates buzz and, and all of that. So when
you're behind a ball, and it's like, well, | got to get the money, you get the money from somewhere and then backfill,
you might even find an investor and say I, | put in 500 grand, but | don't want to leave it there, I'll leave 100, they're
great, that person puts in 500, they commit to 100. And as you go, now you close the deal on that part starts, which
helps everybody, and then you raise right out of that 400. And now that kind of makes some return for that people
get in it. And early at a later stage, they aren't don't expect to do as much as people like got in early. So their way
there’s ways to do that as well. So that's another food for thought. That's great. Thank

38:44

you.

Robert 38:45

Anybody else have any ideas for Ben, now that you know what he’s up against? JOHN?

John Graham 38:59

So | haven't done a deal yet. So | take this with a grain of salt. But it seems to me that having a deal under your belt,
and having gone through all sorts of stress and all sorts of craziness, but completing the deal, as long as it doesn't
put you under actually throws you way further ahead. And so it’s, you know, | look at it as you're giving a huge
discount to a brand new client, but to know that that client is going to come back to you 10 more times afterwards.
Well, it's not a discount at all. It’s a minor investment. And so, food for thought, I'm sorry, but that's the way | look at
it is | gotta get my credibility. Somehow | got to work this through and as a result, | got to dig deep. And the other

john,

Robert 39:51

totally concur. You know, the first investment property you bought was the hardest. And there you're no credibility.
And all of a sudden, now you have credibility. The more property you have, the more credibility you get. So getting
the first deal under your belt is huge. | remember we sent out our second offering, which in hindsight, probably wasn't
completely compliant, even though it skipped us a journey. But what's a good deal, so we had a good deal defense.
But our first deal was, it was a syndication, but it was two guys that gave us $50,000 each, but it was a syndication,
and we did the paperwork and everything. And so when we sent it out, we said that our company was proud to
present its next syndication. And just the fact that we can say that was something we couldn't say, Our company is
proud to present our as our very first ever syndication, boom, | don't know about that, right. And this is the whole
thing, you have to build an incredibly that you have. And if you have credibility in the space, you've been doing
assisted living already, great if you have credibility in real estate, or in brokerage, or in development, or in
construction, whatever that is, we leverage that credibility into syndication. But your first deals your first deal. So
getting one under your belt, you know, we had a guy early on an inner circle that had self storage unit up to 260,
something still Self Storage Spaces, and he lived on site. So you've probably seen those where there's, you know, an
And sometimes that's a limitation. But you get around that by having, you know, say the city in the state, you can
only have six. So you build four houses that are six bedrooms, and they're right next to each other. So now the same
caregivers can work right across those four houses. But you have completely captured the letter of the law. It's a
bigger topic. And | think we'll end with this. When you have land, your problem is actually the problem that is given
to the appraiser of a property. The problem is what's highest and best use of all the things | could do with this acre
or 10 acres, what's the highest and best use, and really strain yourself to think about what's the highest yield, thing
like assisted living or shared housing, we have a show coming up on on that here in a little bit, get more yield,
because what the tenant does in the space is more than just live there as a business around it, whether or not you're
interested in that business to Ben's point, you could just own the real estate and get paid a little bit of a premium. But
it's probably not as much premium as you'd like. Because again, that puts stress on the model, especially if it's only a
few units to really see profit in any of these shared housing scenarios. You need to have a good number of beds in a
relatively, you know, compact place. So would it work? Yeah, look at what low Hornbuckle is done. He’s got a
development of 80 beds, between, | think five or six different houses. So it’s a cul de sac that look like big single
family homes, but they’re not. They're just designed specifically for this. Now, when you design them specifically for
residential assisted living, then that's a pretty committed use. You know, | mean, Jean teaches how to take just your
average, you know, large house and do the things necessary to convert it to the use. But once it's converted, you
could convert it back. But who, but who knows? It just takes a little more thought at the beginning of it, the big bad
residential assisted living, | mean, that’s exactly what they are that there’s never going to be another use. And maybe
I've related you so. All right. So yes, Jason, as | mentioned, wanting to remind you guys, and that is the turnkey
syndication opportunity. It’s on a specific opportunity. But the fact that we're headed to Jacksonville, Florida for a
field trip on the 12th 13th and 14th and 15th of August, right around the corner. And | was on a call today with Chris
funk and his team. inventory is a hard thing right now. And they've got a bunch of inventory. And | think there's great
opportunity for a syndicator | know several people in SMC are going. But if you're at the stage in your business where
you're looking for a deal, this would be a pretty inexpensive way to go learn to market meet a bunch of people see
potential deals, they do everything from single family to four Plex, | mean, there's a lot of different things in these
marketplaces, it’s a longer trip than we normally do. Because we're going to do two full bus days, one day, we're
going to be in Jacksonville and the Palm Coast. And the second day on the bus, we're going to be in Ocala and
citrus springs. So a couple 100 miles away, | think we're gonna see a pretty wide area. And these are these are good,
folks. So we've already got 30 something people come in, but there’s room on the bus. So if you guys are interested in
that, | think it's a good opportunity, you know, with with the price of construction materials going up like it has been
finding someone who's already made those purchases, who already has the land. Some of the land these guys have
they bought four or five, six years ago. So their basis is anywhere near what it would be to buy it today. So just for
your consideration, if you're still looking for a market or looking for a deal that could be worth doing. Well, thanks,
everybody. Thanks for being on the call. If you want to submit a question ahead of time we'd love that for next
month, but also happy to take questions on the fly. So with that, we'll bid everybody a good day and we'll see you
next time. Thanks a lot.
good coming in. But | don't understand whether or not this is something that he endures the entire time of the
investment, like every year, it's a preferred, or do you just say, Hey, we're gonna do this for seven years? And the first
three years, | get to make sure you get paid? And then afterwards? And and I'm sure it's a, it depends, because you
can do it in many different ways. But to me, it seems as though based on the con, that you just mentioned, it’s a lot
higher risk for the syndicator. And your reputation is actually the most important thing. You know, it's hard to put, yes,
this is a completed deal. And | felt good about completing it, if | only got mediocre responses, but not really working

that well. So how do you mitigate that?

Robert 18:27

Yeah, good question. Sorry, we're noisy here we have some heavy piece of machinery going by. So you can structure
it in myriad ways. So you absolutely can say we ever verb a term for the first five years, and then something different,
or that verb return amount changes, you can say, let's see, we're doing ground up construction, and ground up
construction, where would the money come from in the first year for a preferred return? It wouldn't, it would have to
be manufactured out of the raise, which is also not a healthy thing to do. So we could talk about that more later if
we need to. But imagine we're developing something or we're investing in a construction deal, you might set it up. So
there's no return for the first two years, because we're under development. We're doing our land work, and we're
building and all those things, we're just soending money, we're not making any money. And then for the next year,
we're going to be in stabilization on the property. So there's no preferred return. But starting in year three, and
thereafter we have a preferred return of 5% to the investor. Because what that says is it gives you as the promoter an
incentive to make sure that thing is staying rented, whether it’s industrial or retail or residential. It’s being rented and
therefore that's what assures the return. The reason | like most property managers model is they only get paid if
there's a paying tenant. We had a property manager years ago, he had 700 units that were all real estate guys,
listeners. He was managing he was like our go to provider He's a great guy, and smart and funny and all that
anyway, one day out of nowhere, he sends a letter saying that started the first of the next month, they were going to
change their fee. So that instead of charging us 8%, they were only going to charge seven and a half, great volume,
power the group, but there would be a minimum $500 a month, whether your room was rented or not. And | call
them | like, what the hell is like, well, we looked at our numbers, and we thought it'd be good to lower the amount
everyone else was charging eight or nine, we're gonna bring it down. But in order to do that, we're taking one more
risk. So if everybody pays 500 a month, then we're good, Mike, well, you might be good. But what that says to me,
just let me give you my perspective, as one of the many people whose unit you manage, you're basically saying to me
that, hey, you make your money, whether or not you put a tenant in my unit, if someone moves out, what's your
incentive to rent it? You're making $500 a month no matter what. So what's your incentive? And he's like, | never
thought about that. As a smart guy. So sure enough, the next couple of days income all the calls and emails people
going, what is this? What are you guys doing about this, and he backed back, walk back the whole thing and said,
Hey, sorry about that, we thought it was a good idea. So this is why you have to look at it from from both points of
view, the pros of a preferred return has to do with attracting capital. And it does one more little nuance, it keeps an
investor off your back. Meaning that one person that's just always going to be wanting to know every single detail
and calling you if your report is a day late, that person is they're getting money in the bank, they're kind of like set
and forget for them. So it is kind of a positive in that way. But the challenge with preferred returns comes when the
deal has a hiccup and can't provide it. And now we have an inordinate balance in where the money goes. If it all has
to go the investors and | understand the heart for why you would do that. The problem is you've spent your promote,
you don't have any more money in the bank, or maybe there's a little bit in there. And now what how long are you
going to work for free? So and that’s not about you, that's not about you being greedy? Are you making money, it's
about looking out for your investor. Because if your investor runs into a situation where the manager has no incentive
to get up every day and work hard on the property, that's not good for them. Alright, so that was kind of the big
discussion on how do we balance it? Do we ever preferred return or not? We could talk about it ad nauseum. But let's
go to Ben, because | know Ben, you submitted a question before, before we started that, take us through it.
material change with your attorneys help and guidance, but everyone has to sign off on it. We've decided halfway
through, hey, we have this great opportunity to do this. Instead, it’s not what we said in our business plan. It's the
same idea except we're going to do this. But it's enough of material change that we have to not only disclose and
inform, we have to get everybody's approval. So you want to you want to kind of start that process so that when that
happens, they're ready. The last thing you want is a form letter coming. It's like one of my pet peeves here is that our
software that speaks to our owners, when they have money or owe money. It's not very user friendly. It's like a bill and
paste site that just says you have an invoice, it'd be so much better if it could say, Hi, Mr. Owner, everything's
beautiful down here in Paradise, just wanted to let you know there's a new invoice and you'll find it here. But it
doesn't do that it doesn’t have the ability to do that. It's like, well, it’s a Hilton product. Okay, we'll get over it. So we
try to develop our bedside manner. And this, we're talking about bedside manner, how do you go to those folks?
What do you need to say to them, now most of them aren't going to understand the difference between a 506 b and
a five will succeed, they want to have it to be about the jargon, you've got to develop what the story is, what's the
narrative, it's something along the lines of, we're excited about the investment, we have a new opportunity to open it
up for additional investors or investment or whatever the details are. And in order to do that, we're going to make a
fundamental shift in the type of security that we're offering. Not to get technical, but and just kind of explain here's
why we're doing it in layman's terms as unlegal as you possibly can. And then tm about what's going to happen.
Now on the other side, you've got to inform the people that are coming in as though it was a 506 C, that you've got
this baggage. Now it’s not uncommon, there can already be some seed capital investors or angel investors in any
kind of a deal that come along for the ride on your side of the equation. And they may or may not be accredited
tech you or may not may or may not be accredited as a promoter of a viable succeed. You don't have to be
accredited personally. So there there is some it's very common that there's kind of two classes of ownership. | think
Mauricio recommended that in this case, you actually would go with an additional class. So your age shows your B
shares negative a C share, which would be for your 506 C, but you want to make sure that those people also
understand the nature of it as a positive. But so the worst thing that you can do when someone's interested in a deal,
they'll accept almost anything at the beginning. As long as it's not crazy, right, like, okay, so at the beginning is a
couple things you got to know there's this and there's this as kind of weird it’s kind of wonky, but that’s just how it is
on this deal. Okay, great. Way better than six months down the road, they find out this weird or wonky thing I'm like,
well, you never told me that. And it’s probably not a big deal. But if you will tell them up front better. So you definitely
want to tee up the new investors that we started this raise as a 506 B for the following reasons A, B, and C, and now
have made this decision to turn this into a 506 C for the following reasons Ba ba ba, ba straightforward that the final
60 investor will understand have a better understanding most likely in the 506 b investor. Does that help?

Ben 30:45

It does. And then | was just thinking, logistically, | guess | don't have a lot, this is my first deal. But | don't | The reason
why | went with a five or six B initially was a lot of lessons learned in the process. But it was, hey, I've talked to let's
call it 30 people and | felt like | could convert x many out of those 30. And then, you know, | was talking to the list all
the things Stacey and Russ talk about. And so you know, where we are, where we're at, but then the reason why |
never wanted to go like five or six years, | don't have a lot of faith in putting something out in Facebook with people
that | don't have a substantial relationship with your and really think that that's going to move the meter. And so I'm
kind of on the fence on Well, you know, do | go with Plan B of just sell all my real estate, liquidate the 401k and make
this thing go or go and work some of these nurture some of these networks, whether it’s the New Orleans real estate
investment conference, the round that groups, you know, things like that, convert it to a C and see where we land. So
that's kind of my crossroads.

Robert 32:02

Well take, for example, what Brad some rock does, Brad some rock is a 506. b guy, that's his preferred entity. And
he'll argue for it, he’s going to debate with us about it. And yeah, what does he do, he’s got a big ego system where
That's an excellent pro that it. It's kinda like the information is available at the beginning. That's something that
people seem like, oh, okay, so I'm going to group that into the pro of being investor friendly. And there's another side
of investor friendly, and I'll just jump into since we're talking about it, and that is, your investors and prospective
investors have their money somewhere, it’s not in their mattress, it's somewhere it's in a money market account, it’s in
the bank, it's in a CD, it's in gold or silver, it's in stocks, it's somewhere. And they're going to have an opportunity cost
when they pull it from wherever that is now gonna be very high opportunity cost being and how liquid they are. But
they've got an opportunity cost. And so the idea the mentality of a preferred return is as a syndicator. In order for me
to attract capital, | can't just say we'll take your money out of that money market account where you're making two
tenths of a percent, and give it to me hoping we make some money. Instead, having a hurdle rate says listen, before
anybody gets paid, | want to make sure that the investors make at least a nominal amount, it might be 4%. In
today’s environment, it might be eight. I've seen recently a deal that has 11% preferred return, that's pretty high. So
we'll put that in the pro category that it gives the investors a feel good, and then it's investor focused. What else who

else says a pro or con?

Ben 14:08

Well, Robert, one the other side of that coin is it increases your expense in the project in the potentially either in the
early years or puts a burden. | hate to say burden, but just a requirement, if you will, on your cash flow statement.

Robert 14:26

Yep, bingo. It is an obligation just like debt is now it doesn’t work like that, in most cases, and I've seen exceptions to
this, but in most cases, it’s the first 6% of any income that comes in for that year. It's not cumulative. If the first year
you don't make any money, you don't owe the investors that 6% it’s not hanging over your head. It's like if we made
any money, the first 6% goes to investors and we might not make any money the first year and to Ben's point, the
first few years in any deal can be the leanest. So now if you have this obligation To pay the 6% expense. | see that as
as a negative in that regard, but not just for the obvious reason. The other reason is this, when I'm passively investing
with one of you guys, | want to make sure that you have every motivation to get the ball over the line, | want you to
feel great, | want you to be excited, | want you to work hard, because there's something in it for you. I've seen these
deals with these preferred returns go along for the first four or five years with the promoter making zero. So either
they just hit the preferred return or they didn't hit the preferred return. So imagine this you told your investors 7%
preferred return the first year zero the second year for all those the investment investor the third year five, all those
the ambassador, the fourth year, six and a half all those the investor, now you're looking at the fifth year, you've

made zero. So you're not very happy, you're not very motivated. What about the investor? How happy are they they
were counting on 7%? They never once got 7%. So they're not happy? So one of the reasons | don't like preferred
returns is | think they're unrealistic. Real estate is too difficult to figure out. If you had been in the preferred return
deal three years ago, how would COVID and eviction moratoriums have looked? all your money, if any came in was
going to go to your investors? So again, | reason | think that's a negative for the investor, not for you, is because that
investor wants you to remain interested. How many years does a promoter go giving 100% of all the income to the
investors where they go forget this. So this is a little different way of thinking. But you want to make sure that your
investors have a reason to trust you have a reason that you're going to have your foot on the gas. And in most cases,
the premise of a preferred return makes sense. Yeah, okay, | get it to get their attention, | need to assure that they get
something. But you got to be super careful with this when | see 810 12% preferred returns, that scares me. Okay, any

more pros or cons? pros or cons of for arbitrary, john.

John Graham. 17:23

So | understand the higher | want to attract your capital, and | want to pay you something so you feel as though it’s
successful syndication, which is the fact that there's lots of hats that you can wear, development is not syndication.
Early in my development career, we syndicated our deals, that's how we got the money. We have some of our own
money, but we don't think ever had enough to do a full deal on our own except little, you know, for plexes and houses
and things. So to get to that next opportunity level, we had to raise capital, we were primarily development and
redevelopment that was our business, but we use the tool of syndication. So we're looking at the landscape of what it
is that our responsibility and roles are and what's that worth. But the other thing it depends on is how much meat on
the bone. What is the cash flow look like? If I'm buying an apartment building in my own account, and I'm figuring
out an 11% total return, then that becomes a syndication. There’s some sort of split between the investors and | 11%.
Isn't that high? It's decent, it's probably worth doing. But how are we going to be fair about giving that to the
investors in ourselves if they're putting up all the money? So it depends on how often the deal is I'll tell you that the
first seven or eight syndications | did. Not counting the first one, were all 5050. Like, our investors broke the money.
And we were also on that side with some money. And on our side of the equation is the promoter, the sponsor, the
developer, in fact, we made 50%. And our investors still made 20% annualized. So there was enough meat on the
bone in a ground up development deal that we control, we had equity in the land, we were able to deliver the
product at a good price, we Value Engineering, we did all the things you could do to get the profits up. And we
enjoyed a big chunk of those profits. That's different than if | was to buy a single family house that's rented for three
years. Well, now there's not a lot for me to do not saying you're not worth the money because you found the deal
and you lined up the people and you have the relationships and you've done the market analysis. That's where
something but it just is going to depend. So | do see a lot of deals that are at 20, that’s for sure. But normally, that's a
deal where this syndicators buying a fat cow. So the idea of some people like to buy the skinny cow and fatten it up,
right? People that flip properties people develop, and other people want to buy the fat cow, it's up, it's producing
milk, it's all good. And you're gonna pay a premium for that and the returns are going to be less. So if I'm buying a
fat cow at 20 is probably as good as any. I'm hearing believes in our project, which many people have syndicated.

We designed this project to be an investment but a syndication opportunity is, you know, the age old thing in
syndication is every day you wake up, and you need to deal and you need money. And we said, What if we was a
way that you didn't need to worry about where the next deal was coming from? So we set this up to be kind of a
turnkey syndication, which now is grown beyond this project. | think we love to look for a turnkey syndication tool for
you remind me to talk about before we're done, because we've got a new opportunity along those lines, but where a
lot of it has already been done in terms of sourcing the deal. And so here because it's hospitality, because it's retail,
because it's a fat cow, you know, most of the syndicators were 8020, somewhere 9010 more favorable to the investor,
why would you go 9010? Well, if you're early in your syndication career, | think that the first few syndications you do
shouldn't be done for the money, they should be done for the learning experience, I'm going to guess you're going to
stub your toe a little more, and maybe not be as prepared and you're not going to be as good as you will be in the
future. So erring on the side of giving the investors a little more just make sense. So on the other hand, deals get to
the point where they are so lucrative that you literally have to dumb down the deal, meaning you've got to switch the
split in your favor, so that it doesn't seem impossible. | was looking at a deal the other day that the gross annualized
return was 60%. That's pretty high. If you go in at 20 on 60%, my guess is you're gonna have a hard time raising
money unless the story is ironclad. Because it seems too good to be true. Well, it's unique set of circumstances. So it's
not too good to be true, it’s rare. But because of that, if | were going to syndicate that deal, | would probably go back
to 5050. So now it looks like a projected 30% return. I'd probably candidly between syndicators padded with more
contingency than | normally do. And then outperform always great to under promise and over deliver, always, always
always. And the flip side of that which many of us have talked about is when you put too much fat in the deal, too
much contingency too much miscellaneous, too much, you know, sandbagging, then it kills the return and people
aren't interested. And that's a balance you have to make. So at 20, there's not a magic formula, you just kind of kept
the luck. And you know, I'll use to get down to the end and have my perform. And I'll say, all right, if we do what we're
supposed to do, and you're too, here's what the return will be to the investor at 7030 8020 1585. And see how that
looks. Does that look palatable? Does it seem fair, is that an investment a passive investor would be interested in
with somebody would that get their attention, and if it’s not going to get their attention, well, then | have to sharpen
my pencil a little bit and maybe make less on on my side. So every deal is a little different. | don’t think there is a
magic formula because there's not to look at like Eric Shelley's deal, it's completely different than that, it’s got a lot

of room to grow. If you look at Dave's looks at em deal, it's very different. Because it’s finite, it only goes for a certain
onsite manager. And that was his job. And they made enough money from that one property, he and his wife to
cover all their living expenses, but he wanted to do more. And so he was out looking looking looking looking and just
couldn't find similar situation for sale. And we said, Well, why don't you syndicate the one you're in, like, it's already
got, you got years of operating history, if is profitable, is like, well, that’s what I'm living on. Correct. So you don't just
do that, and you're done. You do that to give you what you need to go out and get to the next level. So sometimes
what he already had was the credibility and he already owned the deal. So it was a way to kind of short cut some of
that those early stages, which | think is your point, john, if you have never done a deal, just getting that deal done
getting one in the in the wind column, right does a lot. So I'm also a fan of doing what it takes to get this one done,
Ben. And then if you have to give more, you have to backfill or you have to liquidate some property to do it. Again,
probably not a bad time to do that. Not saying there won't be more transitory inflation on the way but right. |
needed the thoughts for for Ben.

© Brad Niebuhr 42:38

Maybe too, and | think they're kind of in line with what Robert and john we're saying was, yeah, just do it. Like if the
properties and the other money, like it’s not going to cost you a whole bunch to liquidate that money or, or there's
you're not worried about that. Yeah, just reverse syndicated get your money back out. But yeah, just reefer | mean,
Emily, and | kind of did that with our first indication. We had a building and we put a syndication on an existing
property. And then the other thing | don't know, if you want to New Orleans, but getting to New Orleans and talking
to tons of people like that can seriously help and make connections and just kind of get yourself used to making
relationships with people.

© Ben 43:29

Yeah, thank you. I'm for sure.

© Robert 43:32

Okay, get up. Yeah, but the benefit. | mean, we definitely have syndicators raise money in New Orleans. But the
bigger picture is, if you're new, the idea is it's 85% accredited investors, and there's going to be 678 100 of them and
just be in there to talk to people. Brad and | were just at freedom Fest in South Dakota. And Brad was showing last
night just the opportunity to ask all kinds of people, | mean, all kinds of people, not just people who had booths, or
people that were speaking from the stage, but just attendees, just getting those conversations, you really get the
pulse of what people are interested in. And again, that's part of building your network long term, building your brand,
building your network getting out there. But it's the practice of what does the credit Festo look like out of the Act? It's
interesting. In New Orleans, we've met lots of people over the years there are these 85% accredited investors and
they're not like everybody, they're not center mass necessarily for real estate, what most of them are, because they're
going to a resources conference, you'll learn that you can invest in ounces of gold and silver and that's one way but a
lot of these guys are there to learn about and get in direct conversations with the junior mining companies, because
Junior mining earlier in the stage of production of the precious metals, there’s where you have a chance to 2x 4x 10x
20x your money. So a lot of times the people that are there are special regulators. And that’s not a bad thing. But
most of them, this always blows me away. So they're at a gold and oil and silver, you know, resource conference. And
yet more people than not on real estate, because real estate is the vehicle that the most number of people either
make or hold their wealth in, you start making a lot of money, you're looking at the bank account going shoot FDIC
is running through your head, you're like, what do | do, and then you hear that the dollar is continuing to collapse. It's
like what | do better by something that's real, it could be 100 ounce bar of gold, but it also could be real estate. And
so it's, it's really interesting at that event that a lot of the people that are there are just pure gold bugs. And a gold

bug isn't necessarily a junior mining speculator. They're just, they like to own lots of precious metal. There's those
folks. Then there's the folks that are crazy speculators, they're like the people who see the horse races, just trying to,
you know, make a bunch of money or the craps table or wherever. And then | think the majority of people, their
mindset is, you know, 10 or 15% of my investment capital, I'm going to, I'm going to take some flyers on but | want to
be smart about it. So I'm going to go research I'm going to go look, you know, Rick Rule and the most successful
Junior mining investors ever billionaires will be at NYC great guy. He says the surest way to go absolutely broke in
junior mining is just a buy a bunch of different shares, because most of them are not going to work. So if you're going
to be in this space, you're going to have to learn it and get diligent and you know, all that hard work comes up. And it
was like, Oh, | don't want any part of that. But what's found what we found now in New Orleans is that people are
open to other things, they aren't just they're learned by me a few are just gold bugs. And that's just if it’s not cool,
they're not interested. But there's they're definitely interested people. So and that's just part of, you know, figuring out
who your avatar ultimately is. Again, back to Brad some rock, he successfully raises 10s of billions of dollars from non
accredited investors. So you can do that you got to jump through those hoops. But it’s absolutely possible. It's a more
patient process, because you got to be people on your wheel, as Carl would say, you got to be building your network
and beating the list and talking to and all those things, because it takes time. You can't scream at the ground to yield
the crop, you have to nurture and soil and plant and protect and all those things. So, but but also, | mean, there is
certainly a line of thinking that | credit investors, there's a lot less than a. And that is true. All right. Anybody else

want to chime in on that? or change the subject? Either way, we got a few minutes left.

Craig Kamman 47:57

Can | slightly change the subject? Sure. Okay. So then maybe you can share with me and then Robert, you can help
me too. | picked up three acre parcel, | should be able to rezone it for four units. So to two twin homes, the neighbors
have approached me so I'm up to about 10 acres, | don’t have the financials worked out on what they want. But
that's probably 12 to 14 units, total. construction costs look like roughly 500,000 per side, for larger units, which | had
a user that would have done like handicapped group homes, and want to take in all four units. And it worked
financially for him. He had the plan. That's how | came up with it. But he needs government money, which there's a
process to get so he can't commit to anything right now. And, Ben, what's you're working on that residential assisted
living? I'm just kind of curious on the economics if that, if that would work for this site. And what you need to make

that stuff operational?

Ben 49:02

Yeah, | mean, it probably could, but residential assisted living is just like everything else in real estate. It's just
location, location, and are the demographics good. I, | tend to have this tendency, but most people who get to know
me, | overanalyze everything and overthink it, which is a blessing and a curse. But we paid for a third party market
research firm that Victor Menashe was kind enough to give me a heads up on out of Dallas, and they triangulated
our internal research. And we specifically picked a location that was outside of an old oil and gas neighborhood
where the demographics were like 60 to 80. And everybody's income was over 150k knowing that they’re all going to
age out of their homes and they're probably not going to want to go very far. And so | would, we took what | call the
apple model, which was, and quite frankly, | don't know why | do this, but it’s like the literally the hardest way we
could have gone, we're going to operate it, we're raising the capital, and we put together the business plan for it. And
so you got to figure out, are you going to do all three? Are you going to just raise capital and have somebody else
operate it? And the economics get a little bit different? Because if you're just gonna in the real estate, then that can
put pressure on the operator and on their margins? And so you got to kind of think through is it going to impact the
quality of care and my ability to sell the home? And you just got to think about what what kind of economic model
Do you want to have? And how do you want to make it work? Does that help?

“—- ° 17 re a7
August 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Deals
and Deal Str...

@ Thu, 10/219:23AM @©@57:37

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

investors, deal, people, money, syndication, residential assisted living, return, preferred, real estate, paid, accredited, mauricio,

funded, units, property, buy, syndicator, credibility, raise, capital

SPEAKERS

John Graham, Brad Niebuhr, Robert, Craig Kamman, Scott Florida, Ben

© Robert 00:17

All right syndication mentoring club it’s our Ask the mentors call deals and deal structure for August 2021. And we've
got a bunch of folks on live happy to hear that if you're watching the recording, we are confident you're gonna learn
something today. And we've had some questions submitted, but so far, those that have submitted questions in
advance are not on the line. So it seems to me best to wait to address those until we have those folks with us. So with
that, we'll open this up this call is primarily about finding a deal. How do you get into the deal flow? Once you have a
deal, the whole contractual part of that and trading and re trading? And then on the syndication side? How do we
structure our deal? We know what the real estate looks like, how do we structure that to be something palatable for
investors and meet their needs? And kind of anything in between? So if you have a question, you can unmute yourself

and fire away. Or a topic you'd like us to explore?

G) Scott Florida 01:21

Hey, Robert, so is 8020. Kind of like the common normal? Or is there a normal, just a, hey, if you're gonna go into it,
this is probably a good place to start?

© Robert 01:32

Yeah, that's a great question. | think that's one of the things | had on my back burner to maybe talk about, which is
how you structure the revenue and the profit between the promoter, the sponsor, you guys, and your investors. And
so we look at a lot of deals that are 8020, meaning 80% of the appreciation 80% of the cash flow, maybe even 80%
of the tax benefits are going to go to the investors who brought the money and maybe 20% goes to the promoter.
It's a huge, it depends, it depends on a lot of things. The first thing it depends on is who's doing what in the deal. If
your investors are truly passive, that’s all they're doing is writing a check, and you and your team are doing
everything else, then you have to look at what that everything else is. If | am approaching someone who is actively in
real estate with a deal, and | am just partnering to bring the money, they're doing the management, they're doing the
hiring, they're right actually running the deal, then I'm going to deserve less, and there's probably going to be less on
the bone than if I'm the actual person doing the deal. This gets back to what Russ talks about in the secrets of
Ben 22:48

| did. Thank you appreciate getting the mastermind through this with the team. So we put together our project. It’s a
residential assisted living, | can kind of give an overview of the deal. But punchline is we've got about $180,000 in the
bank, we underwrote the project to have $500,000. So we're effectively stalled. I've got some backup plans for that.
And | can talk through that. I'm essentially selling every piece of real estate I've got so I've gotten a lot of dry powder.
And it's good time to sell. And I've also looked at liquidating my 401k as backup as well. But as Kiyosaki says that
lazy people use their own money and syndicators raise it, but I'm considering converting it to a 506 C, it's currently a
506. b, | feel like I've gotten to the end of the runway. Jean garena has got a great Facebook page with a lot of
investors looking to invest in these things. Just kind of wanted to talk through that. I've been in conversation with
Mauricio, and unfortunately missed the call yesterday. But | mean, | understand the mechanics, and | think his team
can move it over to a C, but | just didn't know if anybody done it. Or if you were in a similar position with this group,

or you would maybe advise me.

Robert 24:13

All right, that's awesome. So if you were at the meetup, you know that Mauricio came and talked about this, but if
you weren't there, we are post producing that and we'll be on the platform. But that usually takes us some time after
the meetups. So it's maybe still a few weeks away. So let's throw it out there. Has anybody actually tried that or have

any anecdotal stories about converting midstream. Anybody done that? thought about doing it?

Ben 24:47
Happy to write a blog post.

Robert 24:50

Alright, so we will talk about the mechanical part because as you mentioned, you've kind of got that figured out if
you're lost. It's okay. You will be able to hear Mauricio bring us up to speed on that, he did a nice little presentation
including PowerPoint slide. So go figure. So | see such trying to get in, | don’t show him in the waiting room, so maybe
he's on the other zoom, he might be on Ross's Zoom Room instead of mine. So here's the deal. There's a lot of
reasons that you would consider switching midstream, it used to not be possible, and now it is. So | start out with a B
exemption. And I've got all the limitations 35 non accredited, so I've got to do all the paperwork, and | can't advertise
and all those things. And then | decided | want to switch to 506 c, where | do have some additional benefits. So Risa
took us through the technicalities of that from a legal point of view. The other side of it, | think the side we want to
talk about here is how do you Shepherd your investors through this. So you got two groups of ambassadors, you got
those that came in one is a 506. b. And then you have those that are considering adding when it was a 506 C, which
you think Well, what's the big deal? Well, the big deal is one of the benefits to an investor of being in a private
placement, that's a 506. c is they know, the risk profile, the deal is different based on the fact that it's 100%
accredited, everyone's got their big boy pants on, there's no non accredited in the deal. And that’s a safety margin.
So the law says that there are certain investments that only accredited investors are available to invest in. But | like it
too. As an accredited investor, | know that I'm with my peeps, I'm not going to get one crazy person or one
undercapitalized person is going to sink the ship. So now I've got a deal where people were brought in who were not
accredited, it's not a huge thing, right? Because again, they're passive and their rights are limited and all of that, but
it's enough of a concern that | want to shepherd them through. So | want to develop communication to my first
group to explain what's happened. Now I'll do a couple things that will leave them unsurprised when whatever
paperwork is just paperwork, you got to pay for these deals, comes through that they have to agree to any material
change, you make it a syndication, you can do it midstream. After you've raised half the money, you can make a
Ly Craig Kamman 3U°4/

Yeah, yeah, the area is not it’s a younger area. So younger families, definitely incomes well over 100. There. It's, | don't
know, do you need that aging population? Or do they want to move closer to like the grandkids,

© Ben 51:03

there's a, there's probably an arguable play where kids, let's say, and it could be of any age, | mean, my mom is why
shouldn't give away our age, but she’s in our 60s. And her she is still taking care of her dad who's living in an assisted
living. So there's a model where you want to be close to somebody like my mom. But then there's also the model
where you want to be where that person is, and has lived. And |, you know, | don’t know that | have enough

experience to tell you if there's a right or wrong there.

Craig Kamman_ 51:43

Okay. And then as far as economics go, I'm assuming you can pay more than market rate rooms. For Yeah, provide,

Ben 51:52

| think that's where jeans program is pretty invaluable. And sitting down with this financial model. I'm happy to share
our business plan and our financial model, but you just have to do basically cold call assisted living centers and say,
Hey, you know, if | if my grandma was to move in here, what should | budget? And then ask them things? Like how
awful they are? What's the lead time? Have they had severe cases of COVID? Run through their facility, stuff like
that? Just basically secret shopper them? Okay? And then you get that, and then you start piecing that together with
your expense model? What's it going to be the higher caregivers, what what's my debt service, things, things like

that, and you just list it all out, make it true to your, you know, your number.

Craig Kamman_ 52:39

And then what's the ideal size project for residential assisted living? Its sub duty rooms Do you need,

Ben 52:45
I'd say between eight and 16. Okay.

Craig Kamman_ 52:51

So four would be ideal, then four units. Okay.

Robert 52:57

So if you also have the challenge, or potential opportunity of having multiple units that are near each other, so let's
talk about the operations of assisted living, you have people that work there to take care of the seniors, and different

states have different minimums and maximums, | don’t think there’s a minimum, but a maximum number of beds.
passives invest alongside promoters, and they they work it out. So when you have a 506 B, you can take all
accredited investors. So you're not limited, what you're limited about is the advertising piece. And that would be the
reason to do it is if you realize that your database, your group, your tribe is not big enough to get the thing funded.
So | got to go elsewhere, | either need a whale, | can court a person or a fund manager that has enough wherewithal
to come in and take a piece or | can go down the path of advertising. Folks, you don’t have a substantive relationship
with 506 c allows for that. But to your point, it's not just like putting up your deal in good deals calm and it gets
funded in an afternoon. That's not it's not any easier. A credit investors are easier, all things being equal. There's a lot
of reasons it makes sense to be 506 C. But there's also a lot of reasons, especially when you're starting out to be
perfectly satisfied with 506 B. But if you've reached the decision where I'm going to make the conversion, and | need
to, you know, go reach some of these networks, that would be the reason to me if you had a way to get in with a
group that could you know, either you spend the time getting to know them, or you switch and now you're taking
people on your deal. You don't know that well. Now I'm not a big fan of that either way, like even though we can
advertise our worst return is when we advertise because we have no credibility, no reputation. Nobody introduced us.
Nobody recommended us. Nobogy third party validated us. It’s just an ad. It's the lowest level of relationship a cold
ad. The person doesn't have any anything. It’s possible. That's what you know, boiler rooms are about they just dial
for dollars to doctors and dentists and accredited investors and those people get 10 calls an evening, you know, and
and | guess enough for the numbers work that if | make 1000 calls in to say yes, | can make enough commission that
they still do it, but it's not the best way to do business in any business. Everybody in business, appreciates the return
customer and the referral. That's the best the return customer and the referral. | got into Billy's yesterday. I've been
here since the summit. So | left June 30 and | came back August 4. And man, just one after the next after the next
Hey Mr. Robert. Hi, Mr. Robert. I'm going to get my bag | hear Rob Helms and | look up and it’s a guy who, | don't
even know that well, but he came on the goals retreat three years ago. And he and his wife wrote down on their
goals, they wanted to move to a Caribbean country, they caught me and one of the breaks asked me about Belize,
Lomo, they live in Belize. Now they're living the dream. So it's like, your reputation precedes you, and you go to the
front desk to like, welcome back, welcome back very different than Hi, welcome. And here's who we are. And here's
all that so we are all businesses a business of not going out and getting new people every time. It’s nurturing our list.
Having said that, that all takes time. That's like, you know, watching paint, dry bamboo growing, it takes a long time
at the beginning. So when you card gets for the horse, I've got this much, I've got a raise, I'm gonna do this, which
period of time and my group doesn't have the wherewithal, I'm not faulting the idea of going to a 506. c, it's just you
better have a really clear way that you expect that to work, because it's not like, Oh, well, the minute you become a
filer succeed, often your deals gonna get funded. Because it's different. Any investor who's going to invest in your 506
C, could invest in your 506. b, if you have the relationship if you knew they were

Ben 36:09

well, and that was really why I'm thinking about doing it, because | do have some pretty good relationships with like,
Victorian capital capital, or you know, some of these other people and other like CPAs, but | don’t substantially know
their clients. And so my thought was, because | don’t have a substantial relationship if they facilitate a warm
introduction, and I've converted this to a See, that's actually seems like a good path to me, if | want to make a run at
funding this by the end of the year.

Robert 36:43

Absolutely. That's a great point. You know, we talked about who's the influencer and what do they need and who
influences them. And when you can have a warm introduction from somebody that's different, you're basically
borrowing their credibility, they have the substantive relationship, you have a relationship with them, and you're just
bridging that gap, that can work great. You just want to make sure that you've got that in place, we have to do
something to get it funded. Now the other idea just off the top of my head, you could do the things you talked about

at the beginning, get the deal funded, and then syndicate out of it, you put the money up, but you continue to raise
period of time. So you get these returns that look really big. And they're good returns, until you recognize that in year
seven, it's done. And that includes your principal. So | put in 100 grand, and I'm making 1520 25% a year, counting
the return of my principal, and then it's done in seven years. Now he's able to sell that deal. And it’s not a bad deal.
But it's different than equity in the property. It's different than having a loan that’s interest only, right? There's all
kinds of things that contribute. Think about this when you make your monthly payments as the syndicator with
hopefully the money that came in from the property, but that has to be part of the investor capital. So be it
especially at the beginning. Every time you do that, you're gaining back some equity amortisation, it's slow, it doesn't
amount too much. But on a 10 year commercial loan five years in it looks pretty good. That's captured equity. And
how does that get split? The tenants paid that the investors didn't pay that the tenants paid that. So there's a lot to
think about also not too complicated, but many situations are tax favored in real estate. And through most vehicles
that we use in syndication. We don't have to equally split the tax benefit between The promoter and the investor, it
may be that the investor is interested in tax and you can push most of that tax grade to the investor that might be
worth something that compensates them as much or more so than the capital. So all that makes sense, it was a lot.

©) Scott Florida 10:20

Yeah, that's helpful.

© Robert 10:22

So Scott, | would just say when you get down to the performer that shows what it looks like it's going to be to the
investor, just ask yourself those questions. Does that seem reasonable? Would that get someone's attention? Is that
fair for what I'm doing? Do | feel well compensated in the model? Where else am | getting compensated? And
obviously, you would disclose that but is that make sense sometimes syndicators that are brokers can make as much
on a reversion fee or refinance fee as they do on, you know, their side of the deal. As long as it’s disclosed, you got to
pay somebody right back. That can be a reasonable reason to do syndication as a broker, but it might be you know,
enough that would let you leave tip the scales a little more towards the investors. And that brings up another related
topic that we'll get to. And now that | see Ben's joined us, | think he has a question that we'll get to next. But since
we're talking about returns, and how to restructure the return between us and the investors, let's talk about preferred
returns for a minute. Because this is kind of a hot potato topic. There are pros and cons. I've seen some people that
refuse to ever even consider a preferred return, and | see other people that wouldn't do a deal without a preferred
return. So no syndicator left behind a preferred return just means that rather than split on a straight at 20 basis,
instead you set a hurdle, some amount, say it’s 6%. And that is your preferred return. And it works like this, the first
money in goes to the investors until they have realized 6% on their money. And after that, we split it in some way. So
you could say at 20, straight split. Or you might engineer that and look at that to say what if we gave 6% off the top
to the investor and then split 6040? Now there's pros and cons of it. Before | go into what | think they are, who wants
to share something about this? Who wants to give us a pro or a con? Not another question, unless it's a clarification
question because you don't understand the concept, which would be fine. Who wants to give us a pro or a con of a

preferred return?

6) Scott Florida 12:33

seems to me like you're prioritizing the investor. And that's got to feel good for somebody, you know, coming in just

knowing that, hey, I'm, I'm getting paid first. Leaders eat last that tells me something about them. Yep.

© Robert 12:46
