Okay, so I'm going to flip over now to William and then Jan I'll come back to your third question about the cash call.
So William, welcome. Thanks for trading your camera. You didn't have to put on a tie for us but thank you so your
question looks like it has to do with how do | know if my deal can be offered to non accredited investor so it at its
face? It seems like a pretty pretty basic question plain Jane questions so we should be able to deal with it quickly.
But is there anything you wanted to add in terms of color or clarity? Before we flip into Russia?

29:41

although that is the biggest out right now | may have follow up questions.

JO

Russ 29:45
Okay. What the answers? Okay, so

Mauricio 29:50

| was gonna pull back a little bit and say, you know, the first question really, you know, back to the original
syndication philosophies as the guys like to talk about Whether you want to have non accredited investors to begin
with, right, because there is additional risk that can go into this risk adjusted theme of today. You know, the law
assumes that non accredited investors for whether it's true or not doesn’t matter, but they assume that they don't
know anything that they're unsophisticated. And so you have a much higher level of disclosures that you'd have to
provide non accredited investors that you'd have to take into account when you're making that decision of whether |
want non accredited investors in my deal. Not to mention that non accredited because they don’t have as much net
worth or liquidity as an accredited, | tend to care a lot more about that one particular investments, they may have
given you 25,000 or 50,000, that might be a lot of their net worth. And so if things don't go well, they're going to be
you know, in the front of the line when it's time to do the squeaky wheel exercise. So that's kind of the first thing |
would say is not really answering or really, but just keep that in mind. But then specifically as to whether you're
allowed to have non accredited investors, that's going to come down to this specific exemption that you that's
available for you, which one do you want to select. So just as a reminder, 10 seconds here, when you're selling
securities, you have to either register those securities with the SEC, or you need to find an exemption, right. And some
exemptions allow non accredited and some exemptions do not, the ones that you're most likely going to use are
going to be the five or six B's and the five or six C’s, | think you may have heard those, but those are the two most
popular with a 506. b, you are allowed to take non accredited investors, so long as they are sophisticated. And you're
limited to 35 of those in your particular deal. But that's the one that you would primarily use if you if you want to
have nonaccredited in your deal, most likely, you're going to rely on a rule 506 B as in boy,

© Russ 31:37

before you go off B before you go off B is what about the pre existing relationship?

© Mauricio 31:43

Yes. So in order to accept, don't forget about except in order to use the rule 506 B, you are not allowed to advertise
the deal. You're not allowed to genuinely solicit your your offering, you genuinely have to have what's called a pre
existing substantive relationship with your investors. So make sure that that's the case, make sure that you if you're
going to be limiting your offering to your friends and family and people that are already in your network, then 506 B
or this due diligence or whatever. In other words, you just making the case for why the manager that you were when
you raise the money, that you're a better manager today because of the mistake and all you've learned when you
hear me talk about my 2008 experience, which | make no bones about, | tell people about it, but | believe and | think
it's true and largely provable, I'm a smarter entrepreneur and a smarter investor because of 2008 because | was very
aware of getting the lesson. And a big part of that was the people that everybody can see that we've surrounded
ourselves with and who we listen to that weren't part of our world prior to 2008. And so we made the sale Hey, we're
still qualified to be mentors, if you will, because we fail because we're smarter and so you need to kind of do the

same thing and then you just have to make the case for the money you know, sources and uses. This is you know, Tim
ratios point you know, we've got X number of people, we don't anticipate that everybody will raise therefore, if we
divided it equally by interest or equally by number investors, it would be this number, but we're going to raise plus 20
because we think that 20% of the people aren't going to respond. We could be wrong. If we overshoot we'll return
the access we don't beyond what we need if we undershoot | may be back. I’ve just to be honest, because | don't
know what's going to happen. And then then you can point out the provisions Hey, what if you're on board, you may
be able to buy in In a greater peace of interest, earn some interest on your capital, because the provision is if
somebody doesn't meet their cash call and you fund it, you get an extra slice to ratios point and they get diluted, or
you're going to get paid interest on that loan that you effectively made to them. And so you do have something to
sell. But but just understand it's a sales question. You have to, you're coming from a position where you have
ostensibly failed to a degree. And now you have to have a plausible explanation why it happened, why you're still the
right person to move forward. And hopefully why it won't happen again, we're you can't guarantee it won't happen
again, but at least the precautions you're taking. So there's all of that. So, Mauricio, we're gonna cut you loose. Tell
Heidi Thank you.

Mauricio 45:48

Well, we can make it to appreciate everyone.

Russ 45:50

Okay. And for everybody else, | really, you know, I'm not the lawyer. | mean, obviously, | have a lot to say on all these
subjects and happy to but before we cut out, does anybody have any questions about anything that we've already

talked about? And I'll do my best to try to clarify without Mauricio. Okay, yo, Jana, you have one? Okay.

Janna Hubbs 46:17

This is, yeah, this is a question on insurance. And as most people know, we had a major buyer in one of our
apartment complexes. And the question has to do with who, if we need to seek legal counsel, we've got several
different attorneys that we work with across different projects. But if we need to seek counsel, regarding the
insurance company and payment and that type of thing, who is best? Who would you recommend? Or is there
somebody out there that you would recommend that we converse with regarding payment and finalizing our policy?
Yeah, coverage

Russ 46:57

counsel. They're called coverage counsel. They're their lawyers that specialize in insurance and insurance coverage,
they specialize in extracting claims payment, negotiating in litigation, we did an interview with a guy that we used
many years ago, based in Campbell, California named Randy Hess hgss, | believe that he can practice in several
jurisdictions. But that's, that’s what you're looking for. So you can contact him in his office, it would be helpful if you
let him know we sent you. But and then, and see if he can either help you or refer you to somebody. And we could
probably look further, maybe Mercier could assist with this. But you know, that's a kind of a gap we have right now, in
our advisory board. But you know, as I’m working with Kevin, and we, you know, start expanding what we're doing on
the legal front. Most of it's been about marketing and getting organized, because that's where most of you are at,
but some of you are a little longer in the tooth a little bit more experienced, and you have these kind of needs, which,
you know, we're continuing to round out the program. But yeah, what you want is an insurance coverage Council. So
you pull out your policies, and you should read them. Yes, definitely make a copy of them, read them with a
highlighter, and then highlight everything you don't understand, you know, put a little number 12345 like footnotes
and create a list of questions that you have about all of that, and then be prepared to present that to your coverage.
counsel, along with the facts of the case. If you have a communications log, which you should have everything that
you've communicated, hopefully, it's not a lot of oral communication, you know, but you've got letters and emails,
you know, written correspondence, where it's clearly what the demands are the questions that you've asked their
responses, the position they've taken, you want to have all of that organized, so that when you go in, you have kind
of the overall narrative, meaning the context of everything, you have all the technical details, which is going to be
what the policy says, and what the representatives have been saying, and what you've been saying. And then you
give that to them. And you say, Okay, can you help me, and then they will, they'll tell you after you write them a
retainer, check and sign their agreement. So hopefully, the cause if there is a cause of action or the dispute, there's a
large enough amount of money, that it’s going to be worth what you're going to have to pay to go there. Along the
way, you're going to learn that some insurance companies are really customer service oriented when it comes to
processing their claims. And some aren't. They just play the deny and make you just they beat you into submission to
where you don't want to continue to pursue your claim. So and then there's other people that are involved in claim
negotiation, private vendors, you know, in other words, people that use To work in the Claims Department have set
up a consulting prospect to advocate or practice to advocate for people who are in your situation. So you may look
for those, and they may be able to give you some referrals, your coverage counsel can tell you probably from their
history of fighting with insurance companies, which companies and policies are good to have. Because at the end of
the day, if you save a few bucks on a policy, but you end up doing business, not with someone who doesn't have the
financial well being | mean, that's that's one thing. | mean, obviously, you shouldn't do business with a financially
unstable or low rated company. Because if they go bankrupt, especially if you have some type of a natural disaster
or something, you know, where they're, they're faced with a lot of claims. And that's a problem because there's no
like, FDIC insurance come gonna come to bat for you. But But really, what's more important to me, assuming that
they're financially strong, is what is their history of claims payment? Do they harass their clients? So they resist the
claim? Or do they pay the claim? Do they really advocate for the client and try to make them whole, there are some
good insurance companies out there, they're just hard to find, once you find them, you got to pay extra pay it right?
It's worth it, it's worth it because it protects both you and your investors. And in the overall scheme of a reasonably
sized syndication, that little extra percentage difference, if you pay 10 or 15%. More for insurance, it's not going to
make or break your deal or your ROI. But it will make or break the deal, or ROI. If if you have to, you know, spend
$100,000 in coverage counsel fees to extract a payment that you should have been given right away. Or if they're
low balling you, which is another thing insurance companies like to do, and they try to settle with you pennies on the
dollar and just get you to eat it. So again, people who live in that space all the time, both on the private consulting
side and on the coverage counsel side, are probably a better place to get those answers than your brokers. | love the
brokers. But brokers make a big wrong assumption. And that is they think the only thing you care about is price. They
try to give you the lowest price and they try to create carve outs to lower your premium, | would never take a carve
out meaning, you know, accepting in a gap in coverage, because of insurance broker says, Oh, well, you probably
don't need this, the person who | want to ask if | need that or don't need it is going to be my coverage counsel. It's
like, hey, if | waive this, what am | risking? versus, you know, what am | saving? Again, it’s risk adjusted return, I’m
gonna save a little bit of premium, but what am i risking. So those are two, that’s a concept. I'd like everybody in the
syndication mentoring club to really learn to think of in terms of risk adjusted return. And you have to understand
when you're getting something, you're always giving something and you're taking risk. And you have to, you always

have to assess everything you do in that context. And it helps you see the things you don't see faster. And of course,
© Mauricio 15:32

The structure doesn't necessarily matter too much with a joint venture, either, because the two ways to do a joint
venture is let's say, let's say you're buying a piece of property, or one way is that let's say there's four people that
everybody just takes direct title to, to that, to that piece of property, which is not a good idea in your personal name
Anyway, you probably set up a holding company, right. And the other probably more common structure is they just
create an LLC that owns a property, and then you have four members inside that LLC, and everybody again, is,

© Russ 15:59

but as long as they're all active, that would still be joint venture fading, right.

to ) Mauricio 16:03

So you don't have that limited liability protection from that standpoint. Now, if something were to happen to the
property, slip and fall, you know, whatever, then yes, you're gonna have all that protection from the entity structure,
because you don't own it, it’s going to be owned by a holding company. And that should limit the exposure to all the
members. But if you're out there, you know, entering into contracts with people and actively doing work and there's
an issue then then that then you're not going to be able to hide behind those entities. And that's the whole idea, the
whole idea is that you're actively participating. And when you're actively participating, you're going to be on the
hook.

© Russ 16:31

Yeah, so this goes back to another topic, which we've been covering, we had Kevin day out at the last meetup. And
I'm going to start doing a ask him mentors with Kevin, because | think the cleanest way to do it is you organize all of
your, your personal assets into a trust and asset protection trust. And then now, you can go out there and conduct
your business, and you are a liability producing machine. But if you get into trouble, you don't really own anything. So
you can be the beneficiary of this trust that you set up and enjoy the use and the benefits of all of your assets
without putting them on the line every time you go out there. And it's one of the | think, shortcomings of kind of the
idea that a lot of asset protection people put out there that is you just put together you know, a limited liability
company. But when you get out there, you're still individually in your personal life. And when you get involved in
something like this type of joint venture, there’s just so much liability that you create, they almost always can find a
way to get to everything you own, if you own it, different discussion, but it kind of dovetails so be make sure that if
you're kind of curious about all that you take a look at some of the videos that we've done with Kevin, on the asset
protection side and really get your mind around the idea of using an asset protection trust before you get too deep
into the liabilities of being a syndicator. And then number two is start looking at your current situation and bringing
your questions into the estimators with Kevin, because | think a lot of good stuff is going to come out of that I've
spent the last couple of years actually working with Kevin to really get my mind around how all that works. And now
that | feel like | have good enough knowledge to emcee the calls, | think we're gonna pull a lot of good content out of
him. So anyway, let's get back here with Mauricio, because we only have about 25 minutes left with him. So before |
close out with you, Scott did did we address your | know you've got other stuff, but | want to pass the ball around a

little bit. But in terms of that preliminary question, did we get it covered for you?

ar» C aa 6k MLaul ole AON.9NA
always got again risk the risk adjusted returns of doing that is that when you when you take that step you're
probably going to have the opposite short term effect which is the probably the sponsor that was going to shut
down probably on advice of counsel they're gonna be like Hey, they've hired a lawyer | don't want you to say
anything | don’t want you to do this even if you were planning on doing a report next month stop because now we're
in litigation and | was going to be up to the lawyer so going back with a theme of risk adjusted the other thing | you
know, if you think that they're violating or have committed some kind of a wrongdoing based on almost on the
security side, maybe there's some fraud involved or they'd failed to say something and things are going wrong, then
one of the things you've got to be a little bit careful about here but the other thing is that you've got the leverage of
saying look if you don't get back to me here in the next couple of weeks or something or you know I'm being
reasonable here here's my letter you know, maybe I'm gonna pick up the phone and call someone you know, maybe
a regulator or something to say hey, something's not right here and that's the last thing a sponsor wants is
somebody picking up the phone and and calling a regulator or making a complaint to the SEC or the or the you
know, the right the state regulators so that might be a good leverage point but again, if you make that call then
you've lost the leverage at that point because again, once that happens if there’s an investigation they're going to
shut down but but just the the idea that hey, I'm already in hot water meeting the sponsor because things aren't
going well. If Jana picks up the phone and calls the SEC and | get now a letter from the SEC, that’s not something
they're gonna want either so that sometimes results in a little bit of leverage there to get get things done and get
moving along because that's the last thing a sponsor wants is a is a letter from the regulator, you know, asking him
about all the all the stuff and things like that, but it’s a tough situation because there's a legal piece, which is very
clear, they're in violation of breach of contract breach of something else, but then there's the practical is like, are you
really gonna go, you know, drum up support and go hire a lawyer and go file lawsuits?

Russ 23:28

Well, there's another piece to you look at your agreement or look at your agreement with securities counsel, who can
tell you what the investors rights are in terms of replacing the manager there may be an option to do that. And there
may not it depends on who wrote the agreement, how the agreement was written. But if a manager is not
performing, the investors may have the option to replace them. And you just have to look at your specific operating

agreement and see if that process is there and what that process looks like so Mauricio, any comments on that

Mauricio 24:04

now that's that’s definitely a way to go in most operating agreements are going to make it very difficult like mine |
think you're gonna have to have | don’t know 80 90% though but if it’s something egregious where everybody in the
in the syndication agrees then yeah, you'll have a unanimous vote you still have certain issues with okay well now
we've technically replaced the manager we believe we replaced the manager and if the manager says no i don't
agree with that then you still have to go to court and get some kind of court order you know, letting whoever the you
know the world though that there’s a new manager because if the manager itself

Russ 24:34

Yeah, but it is a way to let them know that you're serious especially because the first containment you know, okay,
I've got this squeaky wheel, alright, and as a manager, I'm like, | don't want to deal with it. And, and then all of a
sudden, the squeaky wheel is like, well, I'm gonna go to other investors and try to replace you. Okay, well, that's not
going to a regulator, but that's a next level of heat, but it still keeps the feud in the family. It just spreads it to the
siblings. If you will, but it's a little bit more pressure. And | can tell you as syndicators, you know, sponsors don't want
to see that either, right, they want to try to contain it. Um, and the other thing is, | think before you even start any

saber rattling, because it does tend to ruin the relationship and shut down communication, | would say, really try to
Russ 11:18

Okay, so your real core question is, is, how do | lower my legal costs in structuring a deal this small? That's really

good question. Right? Yeah, that's okay. Now, Maria, that we've got a clear question, I'm gonna throw it back to you.

Mauricio 11:33

Yeah. And | got the sense of that. And so because | get | get this question. Well, actually, I'm the one actually usually
asked it whenever | get a call from someone and they're asked me, Hey, | need to go raise 400 grand or 500 grand,
the first words out of my mouth is hey, you know, there's a compliance cost in all of this, and it's fixed, whether you
raise 500, grand, 5 million, or 50 million is going to be the same, you know, give or take 50 grand. So if you're raising
500, grand, it doesn't make financial sense, it may kill your deal. So that’s point number one. Point number two,
which is where you were going on the sort of the partnership part, and | was going to go in the direction kind of
where Russ was going, which you've got to understand that Remember, the structure itself here, you hear me say this
over and over again, the structure itself doesn't matter if you're doing a syndication, which is the pooling of investors,
right? The pooling of resources, that can be an LLC, and LP this, that that it doesn’t matter, right? It’s the it's the act
of pooling people, right. That's what that that’s what a syndication is, and that's what makes it a securities offering.
And that's what triggers all the compliance. And the compliance is the compliance, whether it's a $500,000 deal or a
$500 billion deal. It's the same compliance that we've got to work with. Hence, the cost, where you are trying to
figure out is like, hey, what if | try and do what we would call the industry, a joint venture, that's really where we go.
And | structure this as a joint venture? Because there's few of us in this at the other and maybe a joint venture is
cheaper? And the answer to the question is yes, if you were had a joint venture, correct, true real joint venture, then
there’s no securities issues that pop up. And so it tends to be a lot less expensive. However, and this is the key point
that | always bring up, you. You don't get to choose whether this is a syndication, or if it's a joint venture, right, the
facts and circumstances dictate that now, as Tom wheelwright likes to say, you can you know, if you change your fax,
you can change your tax. Well, same thing here, if you change your fax, you might be able to squeeze it in as a joint
venture. But the key to a joint venture versus a securities offering is number one, as Russ mentioned, there are no
limited partners, everyone has to be actively involved in the deal everyone is contributing to the project, the returns
of the investment are not being generated by one person or two people is being generated by everyone, right? It
doesn't have to be florid, somebody may only have 10% of the deal. And so therefore, they're contributing about
10% of the work. But everyone has to be contributing so that the the returns are not generated by a person or a
group of people like a sponsors or general partners. That's the key. If it’s less than five people, which it sounds like
you can that that is potentially something we can look at as a joint venture. But number one, you're not taking, you
know, you're not treating as innocent as a syndication. So you're not taking any fees, right, you're not taking an
acquisition fee, or an asset management fee. Everyone's contributing capital, everyone's contributing energy. Ideally,
everybody's on the loan, because that helps a ton in terms of showing that people are actively involved. So you really
have to structure it in such a way that everybody is actively participating in the deal, not to not to, and not to forget,
as Russ correctly pointed out, at that point, everybody's active, everybody's on the hook for everybody else's issues.
So if, if one of your partners, you know, let’s say you have four partners, and one of them screws up for some reason,
all four of you are going down because everyone's responsible for the liabilities for everybody else. So that’s, as Russ
said, the risk adjusted issues that come up with joint ventures, but yeah, if everybody's gonna chip in, you know, 25%
and everybody's gonna sign on the loan, everybody's gonna do something and you want to split everything for ways.

You've got yourself a joint venture, and it's should be relatively inexpensive, you know, probably a third of the cost.

Russ 15:04

Let me jump in real quick and ask a question that | think | might know the answer to. But | want to be clear. So if we
were to put together a joint venture, | wouldn't want to enter into that joint venture in my own name, | would set up
my management company or | would enter into it through my entity so that if | end up on the hook for whatever

anybody else does, it’s really my management company. And not me personally, can | do that?
resume, or | just want to learn from you, Scott, because I'm a newbie, and this is really interesting to me, then great,
you can make him a 1% general partner or a 50%, general partner, whatever you think is fair, and you can give him
some activity. If on the other hand, | think this may be where you're going, if you're not, it's good for the for the group
anyway. If on the other hand, what you're trying to do is bring him in as sort of a co sponsor, so that you can now
have access to his Rolodex and be able to reach out to investors that he has, and that's a different discussion, but

sounds like that's not where you're going.

Scott Florida 03:19

No, no, the primary thing that I'm thinking about like and this is this is the follow up question is related to a
partnership versus a syndication as far as the cost to set it up. So the deal that we're looking at, it's not a huge deal.
And | think between him and I, and maybe, you know, one or another partner that | could bring in, and we can all do,
you know, like, one guy could manage the manager, | could be the deal sponsor, he could be the CPA guy, you know,
we put together a deal that way. Would it be? Would there be a substantial savings by doing a partnership versus
doing a full blown syndication way? So

Russ 03:51

I'm gonna jump in here real quick because we're having a you know how | hold up the Black's Law Dictionary, its
secrets of successful syndication, and | tell you that words mean things. syndication is simply putting people
together. It isn't an entity, it isn’t the legal structure, it's just simply putting people together. So a partnership is a
specific legal relationship. You know, we can talk about oh, this person is my partner, we're friends, but in law, and
again, ratio, correct me if I'm wrong, it has a very specific legal connotation. And the basic structure of syndications
is the concept you're going to have a general partner, somebody who takes on the active responsibility of running
everything, and then you're going to have the limited partners who basically just put up the money and have limited
exposure. Now the structure the legal structure could be a partnership and LP limited partnership. It could be a LLC,
which is a limited liability company, which is a hybrid of a corporation and an LP that came out in 1990. Maybe
seven or so to kind of address some of these things. But there’s a couple things | think for everybody who's watching
this to understand number one, when you if you are on the clock with an attorney, you're coming in with questions
that are kind of vague, and you're going to spend, you're going to get, you're going to pay a lot of money to have
your attorney sit there and explain things to you. And so the reason we do these is to help people avoid that. But the
first thing recio did, which was excellent is you kind of wandered around trying to figure out what your question was,
he was trying to track with you. And then ask a clarifying question. And so the quicker you can start with the end in
mind, that's how you ask great questions. Number Number one is, what are you trying to accomplish? That was the
first question he asked. And so that's the context. So what are you trying to accomplish? Are you trying to tap into
this guy's list? Are you trying to tap into his expertise? Are you trying to satisfy something he wants in terms of putting
him on your deal for his resume? What is what what are all of the things you're trying to accomplish? And then the
other part of it that needs to be considered is that when someone rolls over from the protection of being a limited
person, whether it's a limited member in a limited liability company, or a limited partner, in a limited partnership, the
end of the day, when someone is going to take in an active role, they're also taking on active liability, they probably
don't know it. And, but but you need to know it, kind of as a responsible partner. And it also demonstrates your
caring concern for them, because there's, hey, if you step into this role, we need to make sure that you're on the
insurance policy, we need to make sure that you understand what you can and can't do, because the minute they're
active, they represent the partnership and their and their acts. They're not only responsible for but to a degree, so are
you and the entity. So the most dangerous structure. Besides sole proprietorship, where you take 100% full fledge
liability for everything you do with no shelter is a general partnership where two people get together, and they're just
like, it's like a sole proprietorship with two people in it. And again, there's no protection and you're mutually liable.
And again, ratio, correct me if I'm wrong for each other's acts, which is why the limited partnership concept came up,
it's like, hey, the limited partners are willing to put the money in and take the financial risk, but they don’t want to
is delphian option. And like | said, it allows you to take 35 non accredited investors so long as they're sophisticated.
The other option that you would have is theoretically as a reggae. But that tends to be only available really, if you're
doing sort of funds because you don't have time in us if you're buying a property, that's going to take you six to nine
months to get through the registration process which most of the time you won't have. But if you were doing a fun
and you had no you weren't stressed for time and you had all the time in the world, then there is an option to go
register. So have a mini registration with the SEC go through that nine month process. And then once it gets
approved, you would be able to take non accredited investors as well there's some limitations as to you know how
much it's usually 10% of their net worth or income. But keep in mind it is extremely much more expensive than a
regular syndication, you're probably looking at five to six times the cost of a regular you know 506 b do because you
are having to interact and your attorney is gonna have to go negotiate with government lawyer and go back and
forth. And it's just a lot more work involved, plus all the compliance nonsense you've got to deal with. But for us, I'm
happy to discuss that offline. Probably if you thought you wanted to go through the reggae rapid generally you're
going to do a 506 b which would allow you to take up to 35 non accredited, that's really your only realistic option. If
you're looking to do to do non accredited to this point.

Russ 33:28

And and for everybody's sake, let me just toss this in, even though it's not legal, it's marketing. But 506 B is the main
reason why you should have every week, part of your routine is to create relationships. Every week, you should be
getting together with people and establishing those substantive, pre existing relationships. Because if you're going to
be in this business long term, it's not about the deal you have at hand or the deal that you're even contemplating. It's
about the deal you're going to do a year from now, two years from now, three years from now. And if you're packing
the pipeline, as most of you have your entire life building personal friendships, personal relationships, then what
happens is we come out and do a 506 B and we burn through all of our friends and family that we spent all that time
building the relationships with. And we don't haven't been adding new relationships to that pipeline. This is a
relationship business. And so you know, whether whether it’s playing cashflow games, creating a meetup, joining
clubs participating, somehow find ways to get into relationships with people. for whatever reasons why we do the
firearms training thing. It's a way to get people to come out and do something that's documented. We're all together.
We spent four days together, the investor summit, that's another place the New Orleans investment conference, hey,
we spent these all this time together, look, the documentation there registered, | was registered. We were there.
Here's pictures of us. We spent time Together, right. And that was, you know, months or years before we did a deal
together. And so just constantly be out there doing that. And then the other thing is you focus all of your advertising
and promotion on accredited investors understanding that accredited investors, you're gonna have non accredited
people in their lives. And if you create mixers where you invite people to come do something, back in the day, Robert
loved concerts. So we built a lot of our networking around going to concerts, and we would invite influential people
to come to us with, you know, come with us to go to these nice concerts, and Robert would buy great seats. And then
we would have drinks and become friends. And then we would invite them to something else where they can invite
their friends. And they would, you know, like with the firearms training, we're allowing people to invite up to six of
their friends. Why because all the frontline people that we have a relationship with, will invite some of their friends
and that we don't have a relationship with a wall, go spend four days together and get to know each other, now we
have a relationship. And so look for the opportunities to do that and create the opportunities to do that, depending
on what your interests are. And then just go out there and start making friends. And in the course of building your
friendships, people are going to find out who you are what you do, especially if you see those social situations with
fans, with people that are doing the same thing. And B people come on firearms training excursion, there's 40 of us
there, and 30 of us are in real estate investing in syndication, then that topic of discussion comes up. And if someone
is interested, they can they can say, Hey, I'm interested. And if they're not interested, they don't feel like it was a bait
and switch because it isn’t the main thing. It's not what everybody's there to do. But it just happens organically,
because you got the right mix. So didn't want to go too far off on a tangent. But you know, typically the question is
asked, because people come into this business, and they have a whole bunch of friends that are non accredited. |
want you to think way, way past the group of people you currently know. Think of all the people that they know. And
then think of all the people that the people that you acquire through advertising. Now if you're only looking at the
person, you acquire the deal, or the transaction or the relationship at hand, and you're not looking at their each
person is a center of influence, you're really slowing down how quickly you can build an investor base. All right. So we

are got six minutes, let's flip back to Janice question. Well, first of all, William, did we cover what you needed
covered?

A 37:28
| sort of, | guess it created another question that now | know that exemption is more towards the people, but not the

deal itself. So if | were to invest in someone else's steel, then | have to look at whether | qualify for that exemption.
Right? Yeah.

© Mauricio 37:50

If you're investing in somebody else's deal, yeah, they're gonna go through the exercise of making sure that you
qualify. So if they're doing a 506 B, they're gonna send you a questionnaire and they're gonna say, I'm only | can only
accept 35, or a third doing a 506 C, or some other one that prohibits non accredited, they're gonna find out when

they they're gonna do their work and find out whether you're accredited pretty early in the process. And if you're not
accredited, then they'll let you know that that you're not eligible for their deal.

@ Russ 38:15

And we did, we did some, we did some content, | don't remember where but membership can probably help find it.
And we're working on getting our library better indexed. But Maria was talking about how you can start a deal as a
as a B and switch it to a C. And it may be that you're the person who you're trying to invest with doesn't know that
they can do that. And you say, hey, you should talk to my attorney, because he can show you how to start with a B,

let me in. And then you can flip it over to a C and still you don't lose anything. So be aware that that’s a tool in your
toolbox, too.

© Mauricio 38:51

And that was at the last syndication mentoring club brush.

© Russ 38:55

Okay, so it may not be it may not be in the platform, or it may be | don't know, but it was, it was the content that we
recorded the last syndication, mentoring club meetup. Okay. So in the interest of time, I'm going to jump over now to
Jana Genesis, if one needs to do a cash call for a syndication, God forbid, who are the best people to determine the

amount potential interest in legal documents? Okay? | don't that's a legal question or marketing question. I'll let
Mauricio tackle. First,

© Mauricio 39:22

I'll address the legal piece. Once again, you got to go to the operating disagreement and look at the section in the
capital calls capital contributions. As always, there should be a provision there. And you know, they're all different,
August 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Legal
and Complian...

@ Thu, 10/219:46AM @ 54:51

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

syndication, question, people, investors, deal, mauricio, joint venture, non accredited investors, accredited, sponsor, partner,

manager, liability, mentors, legal, partnership, operating agreement, claims, counsel, firearms training

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Janna Hubbs, Mauricio

) Russ 00:17

Hey syndication mentoring club This is Russ we're here for our August edition of Ask the mentors with attorney
Mauricio Raul's excited about doing it. We're not going to go the full hour today because Michelle's got a hard stop
in about 40 minutes. So we're going to cover as much ground as we can we get good participation, we have some
pre submitted questions. So | would say let's, let's jump into it. So Scott, Florida, you are on the call, and you've got |
think, a question and maybe some follow up questions. So let's power through your stuff. Got okay. Yeah.

&) Scott Florida 00:53

Okay. So, yeah, my first question, Marisa is just related to the difference between a partnership, you know, in a
syndication and what actually counts toward would allow somebody to be in a partnership. So I've got a guy that I'm
working with a pretty substantial investor, he’s uh, he does a lot of stocks and that type of stuff, that’s really his full
time job. And so one of the things that | was kind of thinking through is he could be kind of like a main investor, a
primary investor on a deal. Could he function as like a person who oversees the CPA, or a role like that, where they
have a pretty limited role in the partnership, but then also one that would count it would be substantial enough to
count as a partner in the deal. So that’s my first question.

© Mauricio 01:55

Just to clarify, ie, are you trying to is this individual potentially bringing in other investors? Is that why you're trying to
make him a partner, or you just want to make him a partner? Because he's looking for experience? And what's the
purpose of him joining as a partner, but and by the way, to be clear, if he’s, if he’s actively doing something, then by
definition, he's not going to be a limited partner, at least not entirely a limited partner. So what we're talking about
now is, does he have a role as a general partner? Or that's really the question you're asking is, can you put him in a
role as a general partner in your deal as a, that doesn't even have to be a co sponsor to sell but as a general partner
doing something? And the initial answer that is, absolutely, you can have anybody do whatever you want. So but |
don't think that’s where you're going. | mean, if you want, if he just wants to experience wants to put it on his resume,
and he wants to be, you know, hey, | want to be a co partner in this deal, or | want to be a co sponsor to put it on my
as you get more experienced, you'll learn from sometimes painful experience. And I'm old enough to have had a
number of those, which is why | think the way | think you'll learn to be more aware of the risks that are out there and
where the where the potholes are, if you will. Did that answer your question?

@) Janna Hubbs 53:08

Yes. And | appreciate that. And I'm just trying to cover my bases right now and get through pairs. We did hire a
consultant, or a person to help weed through this and support us through this process, be our advocate, but we're
coming to and it's over a $4 million loss. So | mean, this was a big deal. Yeah. And then you want

Russ 53:31

to hire coverage counsel, we hired we hired we hired Randy over | think a $2 million situation and it costs us 120
grand, but he got the 2 million

@ Janna Hubbs 53:41

that's pennies on the dollar. You know, when you when it's that big of a? Yeah,

© Russ 53:45

that's you? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Okay, very good. All right. We're gonna call that a wrap. Lady. Oh, ladies, is Emily
there in the picture she is ladies and gentlemen. So really appreciate your time and participation. These calls always
go better when you come with your questions, and, and your energy. So thanks for being here. Appreciate you alll.
And I'll see you on the next ask the mentors. And then remember, we got big plans for New Orleans New Orleans
investment conference. So | hope that you're making plans to attend that. That's going to be a big one. George
gammon is going to be there. We're spending a lot more time with George. And George is also coming out to the
September firearms training if you want to hang with George there too. And for those of you that missed the last
meetup you miss George, because George crashed the party and hung with us for quite a bit. So good things happen
when you show up. No pressure, just letting you know. Alright everybody, thanks a lot. Thanks for us.
SCOLL FIOTIQQ: 10.54

Yeah, | think so that was really, really helpful. It covered a lot of different things that | wasn’t even thinking to ask. So

it was really good thing. Well,

Russ 18:40

that's why you're a smart man to show up on these calls, right? That's why we do them. Because you know, you can
ask good questions when you don't even know what you don't know. And who wants to pay, you know, $300 an hour
or whatever it is to sit there and have somebody explain to you the things that you don't know. So Jana hubbs, you

turned into question, and since you're on I'm gonna let you just ask it to yourself.

Janna Hubbs 19:02

| don't remember what the question is to be honest with you.

Russ 19:05

Okay, so I'll read it, then this is what is the best recommendation if a syndicator is not communicating with their
investors? Most operating agreements indicate frequency of communication to investors on a syndication? What if
that's not followed? If one needs to do a cash call for a syndication? Who are the best people to determine the
amount potential interest in legal documents? So there's three questions there, the first to kind of tie into, you know,
what do you do if you are a passive and you've got a syndicator, who's not communicating? Number two is kind of
along that way. What happens if you're not honoring the obligations set forth under the operating agreement? So

Jana, did | get that those first two, right? Yes, thank you. Okay, Mauricio, tossing it now to you.

Mauricio 19:57

| could have swore we discuss this a little bit, but it's always good to To remind everyone, so it all goes back to the
operating agreement, right? So you've got to look at the operating agreement to see what you know, what the
obligations are of the sponsor. | mean, we always, we always mentioned that the operating agreements really should
be called, you know, an operating disagreement because you only look at it when there's a disagreement. So here's a
disagreement. So what is the operating room and saying, Now, most operating agreements have some kind of a
reporting obligation for the managers once a quarter, once a month, again, look at the actual operating agreement.
that's step number one, step number two, you can always force you know, action by the manager because you can
make requests you know, for example, you can Hey, | want to look at the financials, hey, | want to look at the books
and records | mean, you have a certain again, look at the operating agreement, but mine certainly have some, some
some options for the limited members to request, you know, limited information, but you can make that request and
they have to respond. So if they're not responding and they're violating the operating agreement, and and honestly,
at that point, is really, really putting him out pointing that out to the sponsors because if they're running the
operating agreement, they're violating their you know, fiduciary responsibilities, their duty of care and all that those
funds stuff. Ultimately the the remedy that you have is obviously going to court and having some judge you know, do
that but but realistically, | recognize that's, that's maybe not practical, right? | mean, you've got a disagreement, you
know, going starting a lawsuit and you know, getting everybody together isn't always the most efficient way of doing
it. But if you've got a sponsor who's completely dark and not not responding to your inquiry, especially if things aren't
going well you know, when they should be doubling and tripling up their communication as our good friend Ken
McElroy likes to remind us then then that's an issue and then the question has to become you know, do you want

everybody to get together and go hire somebody to put some legal pressure on it Keep in mind though, you've
right? They're just depending on how you set up. Now generally, common practice in the syndication world is that
cash calls are not mandatory, because most investors just you know, they write you a $50,000 check. They want to
know that that's it. I'm limited to 50 grand, | don't want to have to keep giving you money year after year. So
typically, it's not mandatory, but they're usually provisions in there where if they don't, they don't pay you then there's
some consequences, right. Maybe they get diluted, maybe somebody else loans them some money, and then the
gotta pay an interest that that's secured by the shares. | mean, there’s a mechanism and that's going to all be found
in the, in the operating disagreement from a perspective of who's the best person from a legal perspective is going to
be in that in that document, generally, it's the manager, the manager has the power to number one, determine
whether it’s a cash flow that's required, number one, and if they if they believe in that, in their sole discretion that the
cash flow required, what's the amount? And how they calculate the amount, it's in their sole discretion, but you know,
they just like, Hey, we need a million, I'll give you a great example. Maybe they need, you know, $500,000. And
there's, I'm just making this up. Let's say there's 10, do the math. And let's say there's 10 investors in there, right? So
you would think, Oh, well, it’s just $50,000 each, but there's the formula you got to come up with, because you know,
all 10 people are not going to get the cash goal, right? So how many people do you estimate are going to get the
cash flow? How many are not? And you may have to say, hey, | need 750. So that when only six or seven of you give
me the money, I'll get the 500. But that's just going to be generally from a legal perspective, it's going to be the
manager, most likely it's going to have that ability now, should that be the right person? That's not really a legal
question. You know, who should they be consulting with? Should it be consulting with, you know, their property
managers, their their tax professionals, you know, their account? Like? That's a different question. I'm not sure I'm the
best person to answer that. But from a legal perspective, it's most likely going to be the manager or managers
according to the operating agreement.

0o Russ 41:19

So Janet, Did that answer your question? Or did they? Are there more nuances to it that we need to be aware

@) Janna Hubbs 41:25

of? No, | just wanted to know, if our CPA should be involved, if you know exactly who, obviously, the information is in
the operating agreement, and it’s, it's well spelled out, you know, as far as that goes, but just as far as that support or

backup, um, you know, should we be involving the CPA? Or is that kind of recommended base?

© Russ 41:50

Yeah, so let me jump in. Let me jump in and say, Okay, this is a sales question. And the reason it is, is because you're
you need to go make a sale, you got to raise money, and you're not in a great position, because the first sale you
made the promises didn't go as promised. So you wouldn't be in the position of making the cast call. So the, from a
legal perspective, the operating agreement is going to say, who it is and how they do it. And largely, it's going to be
the operating or the manager does it any way they want, okay, that that's illegal. From a practical sales perspective,
you're going to have to make the sale. So you have to make the case you have to explain, okay, here's what | raised.
Here's why | raised it, here’s where we're at, or here’s what happened, here's where we're at certain things happened,
that were hopefully out of your control, and unexpected and largely unforeseeable. Or it could be, hey, | screwed up, |
made a big mistake. |, we, we, we, we had a part of the project that went bad, and it's my fault, but at the end of the
day, you know, we have to save it, because otherwise all is lost. So the consequences of not meeting the cash call,
meaning everything you've put in, is going to go away, the project's gonna fail, whatever it is, okay, yeah, and
whatever the consequences are. So now you say, I've learned, you have to take the humble pill I've learned. And
here's what I've learned. And here's what I'm doing to mitigate a future problem. My CPAs involved, I've hired a
subject matter expert who knows all about these kinds of problems with this kind of deal. We've done these reports
understand what's going on from the other person's point of view, and why they're not communicating. And if you're
the only person they're not communicating with, or they're not communicating with everybody, you can probably
find that out without revealing too much of your concerns. Again, every heavy handed card that you have to play,
you need to play carefully, because once it's out, its out. And so you want to try to, you know, keep keep yourself kind
of off the radar. But But, you know, be be persistent. And then | think, probably go to see your own counsel and go
through the agreement explained the situation and say, am | being reasonable? You sometimes you just have to ask
yourself, Am | the one that's being unreasonable here? Is it unreasonable for me? Now, it's got to be an attorney that
you trust? Because attorneys are | don't know, oh, yeah, you got a big case here and, you know, signed a big retainer,
and we'll take this guy for everything he's got, you know, so I'm always wary of that. But if you've got an attorney
who, you know, really cares about your bottom line, and isn't just looking at you as a milk cow, then | think it's a good
idea to take counsel like we're doing here is okay. But you get into the weeds of it. Look at the agreement, you talked
about the facts of the circumstance and use you be open to the idea of Hey, am | being unreasonable? Is there
something on the other side that I'm not seeing? So before we move on to your other two are your other question? |
don't want it, William, I'm gonna get your question in too, because | can see you're on the line. Jana, is there anything
more about the first two questions of your threesome there?

@) Janna Hubbs 26:51

No, | think what | did was reach out to the individual and try to reinforce and say how can | help. And it did turn out
positive because there were some people within our syndication, not that | was sponsoring or that Randy was, but
that we were involved in, where they had been a little needy, and so trying to help with that communication link with
the sponsor. And it just it worked out turning out very, very well. So it wasn't the heavy hand It was what Tell me
what's going on, how can | help we've had medicine syndications, we've got some really high need individuals as well

in some of ours and this is what | do, how can | help you make easy communication loop with this individual?

© Russ 27:44

Yeah, | mean and because you're nice people in your experience that's totally the way to handle it and kind of goes
back to what | was trying to say is that you need to you know, to me, you need to assess your hand you need to look
at all the cards you can play but be slow to play that the big cards and see if you can you know win the round if you
will, with your lower cards and play nice before you turn up the heat because once you turn the heat up it changes

the whole dynamic and you really can't reverse it. So trust is a two way street.

© Mauricio 28:15

one more comment there that | think will also help you in the future with leverage and this goes to everyone and this
is now looking at it from the passive investors point of view right because now we're kind of acting as passive and
that is to make sure that once the syndication is over and everybody's got their money raised you wrote and dirty
check you know that they've acquired the asset or what have you. Make sure you have a copy of that exhibit that
has all of the members in that LLC because a lot of times that gets dropped it doesn't happen they don't want to
provide it they maybe provide just your name and your address. But if you have that list you're not gonna have
emails or anything but at least you'll have the name of all the other investors their addresses so at least you can start
communicating because if you don't have that then then you don't really have leverage well I'm going to go talk to

all the other members and vote you out well you don't have their contact information how are you going to get them

© Russ 29:06
take all the rest of the risk. That's why they're limited. But the minute they become active, for whatever benefit,
remember, that's a return on their activity. And anytime anybody is looking at a return on anything, you always have
to add two words to it, which you very seldom hear. But you really have to add to your way of thinking. It’s called risk
adjusted. In other words, | am seeking a return, what am | risking? In order to get it? And UBC? Well, I'm asking, you
know, | want this guy's database, | want access to his database, okay, that’s what you're seeking, what are you
giving? And what are you risking? And if you start to break down these problems with just those basic structural
questions, you're going to end up thinking more clearly, you're going to end up asking better questions and
understanding the answers even better, because your your, your advisors, your mentors, your counselors, your
lawyers, your accountants, all these people have a context you're still yet developing. And they're gonna go right into
the weeds because they think you see what they see. But | can tell from your question, you don't, right. And so there's
a bridge in between. So | didn't mean to step on Mauricio, | just felt like there was a lot of lessons just in the in the
way that whole thing went down. So let's, let's flip it back over to Mauricio and come back to your your, your basic
question, restate your question. Now based on that context, what are you trying to accomplish in this relationship
with this person? and What is he trying to accomplish in the relationship with you, and then out of that will grow,
how you should structure the relationship legally? And then what other considerations you might want to think about
in terms of the risks that both of you are taking? By entering into the relationship? See how that context makes it all a

lot more clear?

Scott Florida 09:18

Yeah, in a ton of pieces there that | hadn't even considered, that kind of changes the question as well, regarding
somebody else taking on that piece of the liability, that’s not something that I'm, you know, keen on putting them in
that type of position. the only factor that | was considering at this point was this is a smaller deal. So the setting up
of a syndication company takes up a decent chunk of the deal, but I'm looking at a, you know, a million and a half
dollar, or a million and a half project, you know, 10 homes or whatever and near Phoenix, that's 15,000 takes a big
chunk. So my thought was, if there's a better if there’s a price that is signified, Less when setting up a partnership,
and we can make that happen, that would be a way to reduce the cost increase the returns, that would be
something worth considering.

Russ 10:09

So, again, it's not the entity formation that is highly expensive. It's going to be the ppm. Yeah, and as we've said
many times, it's actually easier to go big. Right? It just is. And so one of the things that we see syndicators come in alll
the time, same thing we see in the real estate business, most realtors want to start out, and they think they're going
to do something easy. And well, I'm gonna work with first time homebuyers. It's like the most crowded competitive
space you could go in, because everybody goes in there. And every counter agent that you're working with is also an
inexperienced person. And it's just brain damage. And when | used to teach real estate agents, you know, in the GR II
program, | go, you know, what guys, work with investors that are going to do repetitive deals that are sophisticated,
get yourself a great mentor, and play the game at a higher level, it's actually less crowded, and easier. So if if your
supplier of inventory has the ability to give you more, go for it. Now? They don't? Okay, well, then that's a different
discussion.

Scott Florida 11:13

It's a one deal. It's a one off deal and yeah, so.
