Staci Gray 49:51
Yeah, | think your question was like, how do you make the decision, right? Like, how do you
decide if it’s not a fit or if it is a fit.

49:59

JO

Yeah, and even just working with the team in, you know, and | think what Russ said was
really helpful as far as Okay, let's get this objective. Let's look at the metrics, let’s look at
are they owning it? Let's look at why this is happening. You know, in our situation, it's been
like three, four years of, it's just, you know, we have here their reason, like, okay, here the
reason Okay, here the reason Okay, that's like, Well, you know, you got lots of reasons, but
it's still not getting done. So those things come to play as well, like, okay, we've still got to

have a bottom line here that works.

() Staci Gray 50:31

Sure. So I, I'm gonna tell you four things that | like principles that | live by in terms of team
management, one like or decision making a decision making principle we have is, it’s it's
actually a bad word, but we changed it. It's Heck yes. Or Heck no. So if it's not a heck, yes.
And your like i"t's kind of a maybe", then it’s a no. And it makes decision making very easy
because if you're on the fence, it's a no. if you have to say, should | be in this relationship?
Should | do this deal? Try to negotiate with yourself to convince you to do something, it's a
no, if it's a yes, you do it. And so that's one thing. Leading the second principle is leading
or thing that we live by is leading and managing people is only tough if you don't have the
tough conversations. So having the tough conversations up front, saying this is the
expectation, this is what we expect, these are the metrics, if we don't hit them, if things are
going sideways, this is how we're going to handle that. And you say it in advance. So when
you have to go to them and have a tough conversation, they know it's coming, because
you already said, if we don't hit this, we are going to have this conversation that I'm going
to be direct with you. So | think setting that expectation upfront, lays the foundation,
obviously, this isn’t going to work for this because you've already been down this path, but
you can go to them and say, Hey, I'm reevaluating how | do things, this is my go forward
plan, this is the start of it, | apologize that | didn't do this upfront, but I'm doing it now. And
then you can say I'm willing to have this, give it a trial run, let's see, we can get this back
on track. If we can't, then in 90 days, I'm gonna have this conversation with you again,

and it's going to look like this. And you can easily do that. The second thing is if you have
to, or third thing, if you have to micromanage somebody, you're the wrong person in the
wrong seat. So don't if you're at the point where you're like, oh, looking over their shoulder

wondering if they're doing a good job or not, you're micromanaging them. And it's obvious
some experience so that your confidence can grow. And then what you're selling, when
you're raising capital to potential investors, you can borrow, say, your partner with Eric
Shelley, or you partner with Dave Zook, you can borrow their story to boost your
credibility, and you can use their executive summary you can use a lot of a lot of the
legwork will already have happened. And then once you get going, you'll be able to figure
out what it is you want to do. So | think figuring out that first is huge, then the second
thing is building your brand. So a lot of people think they have all of these relationships
and all these friends, family resources that are going to invest in their deal, and they can
just find a deal. So they focus all their time going to try to find a deal. And then they go
back to those people. And those people have already deployed that money elsewhere. Or
they're actually not as interested in investing in their deal as you had speculated. So
constantly be building your relationships, your front end networking. And if you have a
good reputation, people will wait to get in your deals. So don't ever feel like oh, | have this
person, they're ready to go. And | don't have a deal, you will be able to figure that out.
Especially being in the syndication mentoring club and connected with this group, you can
easily go to somebody and get put that money into a deal, you're not going to miss that
opportunity. What's worse is to have a deal and no funding. So | would say figure out the
type of syndicator you want to be and then go build your brand and network and build
relationships. And then the back end as far as like infrastructure operations, legal, all of
that, if you co sponsor you can borrow a lot of that. And you can do a lot with just a
spreadsheet. So yes, you can get everything going you can get a website, you can get a
logo, you can do all of that. And you can really just have a LLC, a bank account and a
relationship and raise capital and give give a boost of confidence and create some
momentum for yourself that then you can spiral into doing bigger deals, you don't have to
have everything planned out for when you want to what you want to do in 10 years, week,
you can start laying the foundation for that, but you're going to overwhelm yourself and
not take any action. If you feel like you have to have everything by all your eyes dotted
your T's crossed, you can do a lot with very, very little, | do realize that people's
personalities are different. So if any of you have taken the disc assessment, if you're a high
C, you're probably going to analyze, analyze, analyze and not take action. So if you have
that type of personality, go find somebody that is more action oriented and partner with
them to push yourself or get coaching or some type of accountability. So you can actually
move you figure a lot out in doing so if you're just going to sit and consume content
actually not execute, you're going to have a lot of things that you think work in theory,
maybe like socialism, but when you actually go do it doesn't work. So | think just get make

some progress. That would be what | would say,

Russ 28:24

Yeah, | totally | want and | want to echo that you learn by doing the whole concept of
signed a contract, and you have the right to your property, to decide who uses it, and who
occupies it, and under what terms, then the law should protect you, and not victimize you
to the detriment of your tenant. So that's the question that the courts are going to have to
decide in the real world, you have to live with what's happening, whether you agree with it
or not. And so if you want to use your investing as political activism, then you can, you can
break the rule and then Sue and, and make a lot of noise. But presuming that you don't
want to do that, and you're just like trying to figure out just like, how do | just deal with this,
there's two sides to it. One is, you have to understand right away what your legal
parameters are. So if you haven't talked to an eviction or a real estate attorney, in your
jurisdiction, then you don't know if you're relying upon your property management that
you don't know whether they're blowing smoke, or telling you the truth. And so you know,
you in your teams, you're going to have your home team, which is going to be your tax
planner, your state asset protection attorney, you know, your those people, and then
you're going to have your away team, the people that operate in the specific market
you're in and a real estate transactional attorney, somebody that knows landlord tenant
law, in the jurisdiction, where you're at, is going to be one of those people. So to me, that's
kind of right away, | need to understand that. I'm gonna turn it over to Stacy here in just a
second. But I'll tee it up for her at least what | | think she’s probably going to say, better
than me, is that in any business relationship, there's an expectation. This is your role.
These are your responsibilities, here are your metrics, and it takes the objectivity or takes
a subjectivity, are you getting the job done? out of the mix? Right, you can both look at the
data, the facts, and it's clear, they're not getting the job done. And that's the first thing
you establish. The second thing, then is "why?" And then you have to figure out why is that
why plausible? Now, if it goes back to Hey, this eviction moratorium is the problem. Well,
you need to know if that’s true or not, because you've done your homework. Right? And if
it is true, then it's true. Right? And when Robert had to face on happy investors in Belize,
because there was no cash flow, | mean, it was pretty easy to say, look, the borders closed,
it's not possible to have tourists, it's not possible to have cash flow. So therefore, as much
as we all hate that reality, it's a reality outside of our control. Now, we have to figure out
what can we do to you know, mitigate based on the actual realities. But if if deep down
inside, you feel like this person is not a match, you know, then that's different that that has
to do with your learning how somebody is behaving under pressure, you don't like it, how
they communicate or don't, how they own or obfuscate. And that really comes down to
your personal philosophy and what you're looking for in relationships. | know when Stacey
onboard somebody, she's pretty clear about what the culture and expectation is, even
with respect to communication and handling disputes and all that. So, Stace, now I'm
going to flip it over to you and let you kind of fill in and add whatever, because | know

you'll have some things to say.
JO

perspective, it was more complicated. from a management perspective, it was more
complicated. | thought distribution is great. So the very first business | started was a
distribution business. Because | thought that’s the business that's an easier business to be
in, | don't have to make the product up. | don't have to figure that out. All | got to do is just
sell it. But | did have to figure out logistics, | set up a little 1500 square foot warehouse in
Ontario, California, near the airport is my first first real attempt to set up a business and |
organized all the inventory, you know, and we would sell and I'd stock and restock. And it
was great john, like 19 years old, you know, | barely know which ways out but it's a great

experience.

37:39

Then later in life, | discovered brokerage. Ant | thought "God brokerage is even better".
Brokerage, I'm just a middleman, | just go find the customer and | find the product they
want to buy and | make a sale and | get paid a commission and | never have to own the
product, | don't have to warehouse it, I'd have to ship it, | don’t have to do anything. And
then that became you know, really where | | focused and then | realized inside of that, that
| could | could deal in concepts, ideas. And to me an investment is an idea. Because if
you've gone through the sales training, you realize when you're selling somebody an
investment, there's no test drive, there’s no new car smell, there's no visceral sensory
perception, you have to take them in their imagination to a future point where they're
enjoying all the benefits of making that investment to get them to really emotionally
attached to it.

Russ 38:32

And so | find this business to be a very, very simple business if you approach it right. And if
you look at the people in our program, who have had the greatest success in terms of
raising lots and lots of money, they are primarily on what I'd call not really brokerage
because technically that's not the right thing. But they're basically on the idea side, they
go raise the money, and they find the deals through third parties who worry about all the
hassle. Now the responsibilities you got to find good, good people. But if you look at Dave
Zook or buck Joffrey or some of these other people, Now, some of you you know, yeah, |
look at it Hey, if | wanted to go if | just was like Robert Helms is | really want to go do
development and | really want to do resort property. And | love offshore and | love Belize. |
mean, that was an unbelieving Kenny McElroy with all of his experience, all of his
resources looked at it goes you guys are either really brave or crazy stupid. And | think it
was probably a combination of both. But you know, God bless Robert and Beth they
figured out a way to get it done. And you know, continue | mean, just relentless. Never give

up attitude through some pretty severe adversity. You shut down the whole country's
border for eight months. That's a pretty big deal. But anyway, so you know, if you think
about if you already have a portfolio, one of the fastest ways to start is simply to
syndicate a piece of it. You already have it, you know how it performs, you know, where
the bodies are buried, you know, you've got history management, there's, it’s very, very
simple. And then you retrieve back some of your capital, and then you can put that
capital into your next deal. And you can leverage what you already know how to do and
go do more of it. Of course, that presumes that you're in an asset class in a market that
you want to continue on, and you think it makes sense. But that's, that's a way if for
whatever reason, you said, Hey, | just don't feel comfortable raising money to put into
somebody else's deal. Or, you know, you can find somebody, if you do decide, hey, | want
to be a particular type of operator, our program isn't designed to give you that type of
granular instruction. That's why we aligned with people like Brad some rock in multifamily
Jean greeno, and residential assisted living. And now they've got a new one shared
housing they're doing which is a variation on a theme. And we're always looking for
people that are really good teachers that really care about their students success, and
actually practice what they preach. And we would have a lot more of them. except they're
hard to find the people who are really good at doing or doing and don't teach. And the
people who are really good at teaching teach you everything you think you need to know,
which is a whole lot more than you really need to know. And then they get you to spend a
lot of money, but they don't really help you do. And sometimes the stuff they're thinking
about sounds good on the classroom, but not in the real world. That's one of the reasons
Robert and | soend so much time in our program, developing content that comes directly
out of the real world. That's why the Ask the Mentors is so much better than coming up
with a curriculum, this is it a college experience. This is a mentorship experience, you go
out, you try, you get stuck, you come back, you get help. Everything's a process. Okay, so
we don't have any other questions | did open up on the idea of team. And | don’t know
that much about everybody's background. But | would be curious if we can stay on that
topic for just a moment. Because ultimately, the backbone of your operations are going to
be your people, they're going to be operating the tools, the software, interacting with the
customers making, what | call tactical at the point of attack decisions. And they're going
to need to understand your vision, your culture, they're going to need to be trained in your
specific procedures, they're going to need to know what the metrics that is going to, that
they're going to be measured against for success or failure. So those are operational
pieces of infrastructure that need to be laid, that the people are going to be operating in.
But it’s so easy when you're an operational person, sales people focus on people in
relationships, that's kind of natural. Sometimes when you really are operationally focused,
it's easy not to and one things | really appreciate about Stacei, Staci completely
understands the sales and marketing side, she understands the human part, the personal
development component, how important alignment of vision is, she’s already mentioned

it, culture, she understands the concept of sweetspot people are not drones, you can't
operationally minded, and you're great as an executive, then | wouldn't necessarily run
away from that. In fact, | would lever that to go to go get the other pieces of the puzzle
that you need. Hire a great marketing person, a great investor relations person, find
somebody who's going to go out and dig up deals, either if you're going to if you're going
to be an operator, where you're actually running projects, you know, if you're Kenny
McElroy, and you're finding apartments, you're rehabbing apartments, you're tenanting
and managing apartments. That's fine. Those are two different business syndication is the
business of raising the money. And then being in the, in the product, niche space, in his
case, the multifamily space. That's its own business. And so you're really running to
business side by side, Robert, and I've always primarily focused on the development side,
because that’s what Robert likes to do. And, and we narrowed it even further from just
development. He was, you know, developing office condos and small retail centers and
medical office buildings. In one day, you know, he said, Well, life is too short to spend alll
this time in this areas where I'm not really that interested. And he just decided to focus on
resort property development, because that’s what he loves. | think he’s been to Belize, like
175 times, and he's still not bored or going. Right. I'm pretty sure if he was doing medical
office development in you know, St. Charles, Louisiana, he would have been bored a long
time ago. | mean, how many times can you go? So that's just part of designing the
business to support you. Anyway, so Staci, how |, I'm sure you probably have something to
say on all of that. And then again, we can open it up to additional questions. Chloe, since
nobody else has a question yet if you need more clarification, happy to go there with you

too.

(s) Staci Gray 14:20

So | think of operations as like he was saying everything that needs to be done on the
back end, but infrastructure, so infrastructure in fulfillment, so everything, all the tools,
technology, resources that you need to do operations and then actually the operating of
it, so fulfilling the functions of each of those things. So you can think in terms of like the
sales marketing side, you can think in terms of having a website web forms, CRM, investor
portal, calendar management, calendly, document management and storage. Whether
you do G Suite, or Dropbox or OneDrive, all of that is going to be operations and then the
workflows. So managing the workflows of a syndication business. So how do you, how do
you generate leads? How do you raise capital? How do you communicate with your
investors? How do you acquire deals? How do you do deal management? The

management of all of that on a day to day is operations?

Russ 15:22

Yeah, | think the key word is infrastructure. Because if you think about, you know, if you
distinction. Okay, you have to if you don't have faith that you can go raise money, then
you shouldn't be in business, you should fix that problem first. But if you do have faith, you
can go raise money, then go raise money, go hire the people, you need to support you to
raise money and figure out what your MVP is, what is your minimum viable product, you
need to have to be able to go out and raise money. And part of that is going to have an
operational component. Because otherwise you're just going to bleed out on your ramp up
cost your savings and then you're going to be out of business, right? You have to get to
sign just | think of it as oxygen. If you can't take a breath. If you can’t generate revenue,
you are going to die. Your business is going to flatline and all you're doing by draining

down your savings is delaying the inevitable you know so so whatever the short path is
make the investment get it in place and then go generate revenue. Okay, so | come off
that soapbox for a minute, the inner circle gets it a lot, we get some stuff popping up in
the chat. So, John, when do you start? Well, once you just since you're here, just go and ask

your question in real time.

John Graham 20:16

So thanks, everybody. And thank you, Russ. So I'm just starting out, and I'm wanting to do
this, and I've been reading and I've been learning, but you know, there's always a first
thing first. And so I've been focusing on 11 things, and | know that that’s wrong. So | want
to focus on three so that | can find the number one out of it and actually focus on it. The

question is, is from my list, What do you recommend is the one, what's the one thing

Russ 20:44

Okay, well, I'm gonna be a mic hog for just a minute and tell you my one thing, and then
I'll flip it to Stacey, and if anybody else has comments, because you know, we're not the
only experienced business people here. But But to me, it starts with your personal
calendar, you know, because you have to get control of your calendar. And you have to
time block when you are going to focus solely on your syndication business. And then,
what do | concentrate on in that first focus session? Asking yourself the one thing question,
what is the one thing that | can do that will make everything else | need to do either easier
or unnecessary? And then you have to really carve out like the major chunks, what is it |
have to do? Well, the first role of giving birth is, is once that baby pops out, you slap it, and
hope it breathes. And if it doesn't, you got to do everything in your power to get it
breathing right away, or you're gonna have a dead baby. Right? It’s that urgent. So you
have to ask yourself, okay, I've got control of my calendar. Now I'm ready to focus on my
business, what's the first and most important thing | do, I've got to be able to take a
breath, | mean, | have to be able to generate revenue, what is my shortest path to cash?

And that's where you start defining for yourself, what is my MVP, my minimum viable
and the fulfillment department is going to fill the order. And so everything that that
supports the operations, you know, of the production goes goes there. But there's another
aspect of operations I'll cover in just a minute. The third is Finance and Administration.

And in the old days that used to encompass tech, but Tech has become such a big animal,
you can split it off and almost make it its own pillar, you don't have to. But what you have
is, you know, you'll have a chief marketing officer overall sales, marketing and customer
service. In the tree in the platform where | talk about the organism of a tree. It's the
branch that brings the customers in and introduces them to the solutions your business
provides. operations is one that makes and provides the the products and services
whatever that is. And then Finance and Administration manages the money, issues, the
reports, handles, legal insurance, accounting, compliance, all of that, and that's under the
chief financial officer. And in the old days, tech used to be under that because tech wasn't
the huge deal that it is today. | think a lot of people break that out. You'll have a chief
technology officer or a Chief Information Officer if you will, but usually it's the technology
person. And so those are the four major branches. Now, all of them operate. And all of
them have operations that are unique to what they do. So you can define operations as
everything that supports the primary thing, which in this business is finding investors and
finding deals and putting them together. And then another big part of it that typically falls
under the finance and administration side is human resources. Team, you know, building
so you know, the way | do it to kind of simplify it, and to remind you that this isn’t an
organizational chart, but it’s an organism, it's a living thing. And it has a root system,
going back to, again, if you haven't seen it, get into the platform, especially if you're new.
But basically, the organization is, is it looks like a tree. And the root system is the mission/
vision/ values. It’s the culture, it’s the spirit of who you are, and what you do and why you
do it. And that's the root system from which you draw all of your strength, all of your
energy, and then you organize a trunk. And the trunk is your legal structure, your
accounting structure and your technology structure. And those three pillars support the
three major functions, which is going out and finding investors and bringing them in, going
out and finding deals and preparing them to offer and then going out and finding team
members to come in and operate all the machinery. And so | like to think of it in very
simplistic terms. But you could you could make the argument that operations is really
everything that makes selling possible, that makes finding deals possible, and makes
recruiting and training people possible. Or you can narrow it a little bit more. And so that's
kind of the way | look at it, you know, and | basically sit in the seat of shareholder, Board of
Directors, Chairman of the Board CEO, | don't even do president Well, I've tried. And
really, that's what | brought Stacy in to do. Because that’s about execution. That's about
holding people accountable to metrics. It’s about a level of discipline on getting things
done, that | have found, has been counter, counter my natural personality to focus on big
picture, strategy, relationships, and selling. So | just live where | live, and make sure that |

bring somebody in who augments me. If you happen to be somebody that is more
building a business for their own benefit. Well, you know, when you go to build a business,
and you start employing a third party contractors to do work, sometimes, at least in my
experience, and maybe I'm the only one, it's tempting to think of them as vendors, and not
really as a team. And there's a relationship you have with vendors, that is a little bit
different than the relationship that you have with team. And when you think of yourself as
a customer, and they think of you as a customer, it's a little bit of a different relationship.
And so in my sales career, and of course, | can't help myself because everything is sales. In
my sales career, what I've learned is that every everything is, is relationship-based. And if
you get yourself positioned to where it is you on one side of the table, and you on the
other side of the table, or the other person on the other side of the table, then what ends
up happening is you, you, you weren't looking at the problems you're collectively facing as
we. So it's really important that not everything is sales, including your vendors, you're
always trying to recruit your team, your if your team is through vendors or your team is
employees, partners, staff, it, you know, everybody, it's you're constantly selling, you're
constantly reinforcing the vision, you're you're constantly recruiting them to bring you
their best efforts, that's part of building goodwill. And one of the ways that | found good
success doing that over my career is focusing on the wif factor instead of the me versus
you factor. So when people get around us, and they look at our provider network, for
example, with the real estate guys, we even though you know, externally, we refer to them
as sponsors, we never treat them as sponsors. We treat them as teammates are part of our
ecosystem, and they're there to serve our listeners, and we hold them accountable to our
culture. We let them know what that is on the front end, we have processes and
procedures they're expected to follow. And to a large degree, they follow our leadership
even though technically they're our customer, but we don't look at them that way. And
they don't feel that way. They don't act that way. So kind of wanted to open up with that.
We got a question in the chat, which | will come back to you for you Chloe in just a
moment. But before | do that, Stace, | know you. You've been in a lot of different
environments. And of course now you're a team builder for third parties. Do you have
anything you want to add or comment on with respect to what | just opened up with?
Since you and | didn't really talk about what we were going to do. Before | got on here?

We just made it up?

Staci Gray 04:39

Yeah, | | fully agree. Um, obviously we build teams for all of the syndicators but we also
view our relationship with the syndicators as a partnership. It also creates more, you
know, speaking of business operations, you can get more things done when you have that
alignment of values and You're actually looking at each other as going as partners. Not
"you do this, | did that" you're on this your same side doing it together, that helps

streamline business operations.
_)O

mentoring, as opposed to a college education is that you're learning by doing under the
watchful eye of mentors. And this is, you know, you've got a network of mentors through
the six or seven or eight or whatever it is, as the mentor calls we have every month that
you can ask live questions, but we're still small enough where you get a lot of attention.
Number two is you have peer mentoring, which is what the club is all about with the
community calls and the forum and, and the meetups. And so we the chances of you
going out in the real world and getting in so far over your head that nobody in this
network can help you dig yourself out. | would say it’s pretty small, there's very few things
that you're going to go do. As long as you're conducting yourself, honestly, and making
sure that you are seeking and heating out the technical professional advice you need

along the way.

29:18

Very, very few things you're going to have happen that that that somebody here hasn't
already gone through or couldn't coach you through pretty easily. So yeah, you do have to
know yourself. And if you're, if you're prone to overthink, and I'm one of those guys, you
know, which is why I've always partnered with people who tend to be prone to action,
Robert is that way people | partnered with before my late wife was that way, right? We got
things done because she would go to the hardware store right away to buy the paint to
paint the room like well, how much do we need? | don't know. Just gonna go look at colors
and pick something out and get going. And then we'd figure it out. Right? So you have to
know your personality and you have to be brutally honest about your strengths and
weaknesses. Just assess yourself like you would any other employee and say, Hey, you
know, God didn't make any perfect people, including me, which means that | have to
make sure | put everybody including me in a position to magnify or leverage their

strengths, and not be crippled, or do do irreparable damage through their weaknesses.

Staci Gray 30:19

Yeah, | think to that same point, | think getting clear on what your sweet spot is also a
huge part of that. So if you know you want to be the capital raiser and the salesperson,
then you're missing another aspect of it, make sure that as you're organizing your
business, that you are pushing yourself into that sweet spot, because you're going to be
more fulfilled, happier and enjoy the process of building a syndication business, if you stay
in your sweet spot. If you get bogged down, trying to do all the tactical and the detail and
whatever, you're just going to get drained. And you're not even going to enjoy building the
syndication business. So figuring out your sweet spot, what kind of syndicator you're going
to be and building your brand. | think that would be generally speaking, obviously, things

can be customized. But generally speaking, those are the three that really we do with
everyone.

Russ 31:12

And the sweet spot that she's referring to is in the platform, if you haven't seen it, your
personal syndication philosophy module, you're going to gravitate towards your sweet
spot anyway, that's where you're going to hide. So you might as well just figure out what it
is and build your build your team, build your business, build your life around it, so you get
to be in it, there will come a season where you don't need to be anywhere you build the
business, and it just runs. But in the interim, you want to make sure that you're primarily if
not exclusively, only operating in your sweet spot, but you're going to have to surround
yourself with other people coming full circle to the opening conversation, your team,
because operations is not just Dropbox and G drive and you know, CRM, but it's the
people that are pulling the levers that are interacting with your investors that are
interacting with your vendors. And they have to be operating in their sweet spot to you
know, Stacy's very attentive to take, you know, giving personality tests and making sure
that she already knows where somebody is prone to she looks at what their experiences.
And then she watches and creates an environment where those people feel that they can
come forward and say, Hey, you know what, I've got these 10 duties that I'm doing. And
one of them | just | hate. And that’s not a sign of weakness, it’s a sign of strength. And it's
actually a positive thing, because we're gonna find out that you hate it sooner or later
anyway, it's going to show up in the results. So we might as well just call it what it is and fix
the problem before it becomes a problem by by with a preemptive strike. And you have to
do the same thing with yourself. Okay, so let's jump over to Brett. Brett, I'll just turn it over

you and let you ask your question. And then we'll, we'll riff off that.

Brett Binkley 32:45

Yeah, thank you, Russell, | think you've really hit on it a lot. But you and Stacey, | think
where | was going is just just try and find that place where you've got enough economies
of scale, but you really hit on it, don't don't wait. And go ahead and bring in that, you
know, Robin and | are a team, we've got others in our in our team that are doing certain
things. We've got existing investments, but as we move out to try and get into these larger
investments, and as | was listening to Staci, you know, we are already doing a where we're
at the beginning of doing a co sponsor. And so maybe I'm just, I'm just in such a hurry to

get going. | need to just slow down and let things take their their natural gravitational pull.

Russ 33:28

So yeah, well, it's a progression. And I'm going to tell a family story here that Staci will
Ollee

August 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call
on Business Operation...

qe Thu, 8/26 8:43AM @ 1:00:09

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, business, operations, deal, building, person, investors, relationship, sales, money, question,

redundancy, sweet spot, syndication, thought, syndicator, customer, problem, day, started

SPEAKERS

Russ, John Graham, Brett Binkley, Staci Gray

Russ 00:03

Hey syndication mentoring club. This is Russ and we are here for our August 2021 edition
of Ask the mentors and its business operations. And we have a pretty good crew, some
new folks. So welcome to the being pleased and happy to see you guys. And and then we
have no pre submitted questions that I'm aware of. So I'm going to open up the chat
window. And if you think of something you want to ask, just chat it. And then | will make
sure that we get to you. But because | saw that we didn't have any pre submitted
questions, | always start out with a few talking points. And I'm sure cc will have a lot to
talk about as well. But one of the things | thought might be interesting to discuss today,
and this is kind of coming right out of the real world , as | remember to silence My phone,
is a side of operations, a lot of times we don't think about a lot, especially for those of us
like me, that have the vast majority of the people who pull the levers and all the machines,
not under my nose, not under my thumb, and not even on directly on my payroll. So in
other words, in today’s world of virtual everything, and instead of having the singular
organizations, | mean, if you really think about where Robert and | are doing, we're
building a giant syndication company, the only difference is we don't own it. And we don't
operate it. And we just get a little bit, very a little bit, which is the, you know, the the dues
for you guys to be in the club, and everything else belongs to you. And that's because
we'd prefer to work with entrepreneurs. And we think we can do a lot more, bigger, faster,

by working through third party people who are really primarily interested in, you know,
JO

make them, you know, enjoy doing something or give you their best effort just because it’s
what you need from them. It’s an art form as much as it is a science effect. I'd say it's
much more of an art form. But does anybody have any current issues, or experiences they
think are relevant to the conversation with respect to team, team building, managing a

team, anything like that?

43:57

I've got a question I'm dealing with, it's related to a property manager. And so not getting
good results. And, you know, as | listened to their explanation of that, they just don't seem
adequate, you know, cash flow is negative, and just can't, you know, can't eat, you know,
even if you're promised me promising me return over the long haul. And so, what we're
trying to sort out is how to deal with that is how do you make that decision of, Okay, now
it's time to break that relationship and say, Hey, we got to sell, you know, it’s complicated
a little bit because of the pandemic. So I've got a person who's not paying, and the
managers telling me, Hey, you know, if you if you evict this person, you can't get
government health. But if you wait, then you get government health. Well, they're not
filling out the forms to get the government health. So you know, all these things are
factoring in so at some point, you got to make a decision. So | guess my question would
be, okay, how do you make that decision? Where, okay, property manager, you're not
cutting it? How do we move orward? The situation that I'm facing is in Birmingham.Oh, it

makes it more complicated.

Russ 45:06

But well, | mean, you know, you always have to deal with the landlord friendly jurisdiction
or not. Right now, you know, you've got the whole CDC eviction moratorium thing, which
is kind of this, this terrible overlay. In fact, we interviewed yesterday an attorney, we're
interviewing one this afternoon. And Kenny McElroy, as you may have seen on his channel
went off on a mega rant on this exact topic. And it’s, you know, as of yesterday, | believe
the whole eviction moratorium concept is going to the Supreme Court, as it should.
Because this, you know, fundamentally, there is no wealth, there is no freedom, there is no
opportunity, if you have to have three components. And right now we've been able to
navigate the one right, you have to have sound money, but we don't. But because we
understand that you can build a lot of equity using leverage and being short, the dollar in
real estate is a great tool. So philosophically, | think we should have it for the good of the
country. But as a real estate investor, it’s like, great, | can make a lot of money in an
unsound money system, | just know that it's not sustainable. And | think we're probably at
the endgame now. And that's really been where I've been focused. But the other two is you

have to have private property rights. And you have to have a rule of law. And if somebody
want to go to work, as a worker, your employer should provide you with a workstation. It
should provide you with, you know, telecommunication, whatever you need to do your job.
So that you can just focus on doing your job, if you're busy running around looking for the
tools, or looking to solve operational problems so that you can do the main thing, you
know, then that's the difference. If you haven't had a chance to read Michael Gerber’s
book, The E myth, again, a classic business book, he basically divides it into two, two sides.
There's the strategy side and the execution side, or the technical side. And so | live on the
street strategic side, strategic alliances, you know, dealing in concepts, even everything |
said, was basically conceptual. on this stage, he started rattling off a bunch of, you know,
very tactical specific things, g drive, and Dropbox and all this, right, because that's, that's
what she does. When | said, Hey, we need to organize the syndication mentoring club.
That was pretty much | painted a picture of the vision of the way it would work when it
was operating correctly. But as far as the platform, the technology, the tools, and | told her
specifically, | hate Google, | hate Google, | despise | say it all the time. | hate Google. And
she came, she goes, Well, we're going to use Google as it should. Okay, well, it's your call,
right? It's not my call. It's her call. And that's what she chose. And even though | hate
Google doesn't matter, what how | feel about it, right? It's not my call, it’s her call. And
there's so many things that go on under the hood that I'm completely unaware of, you
know, when you're interacting with membership, that's a team, there's two or three people
that sit in that seat. Honest to God, | don’t know who they are. Because it doesn’t matter
to me, what matters to me is that the role is fulfilled, and the people who are doing the
job, know what | want done and are doing it. And if | have a problem with that, | just go to
my coordinator, and tell her who | meet with daily used to be Staci, but she’s a big shot
now doesn't have time for me, which is awesome, by the way. But she gave me a
wonderful gal that | deal with every day. And | just tell her what | want. And then she runs
around and does everything else. So | have a chief of staff, if you will, that just handles
that for me. And it is so liberating. | can go start new business units, | can focus on content,
| can do sales calls and meetings, | so many things that I'm free to do now, because | don't
think about any of that stuff, or even worry about it. And to me, again, coming back to
the definition of operations pivoting off of Stacy's word of infrastructure. It’s the wind
beneath my wings. And | don't have to think about the wind, | just spread my wings and
go. And that's how | | want to be and that's what | look for. And if you're not capable of
building that for yourself, or becoming that to support sales, people who work for you,
then you're going to struggle, having a business that actually will operate. And you'll end
up working 10 times as hard producing 1/10 as much and you'll wonder why the hell you
ever did this to start with. And so having great business operations is the key to freedom.
And of course, the way you fund it is you have to have the sales problem solved. You can't,
you know, and | had this conversation with a gal that | coached the other day. And she
says, Well, | | need to go sell more so | can hire the help | need. | said no, you need to hire

the help you need so you can go sell more. Right? It’s a subtle but super important
remember quite well. My oldest daughter, Stephanie started taking gymnastics. And when
she was five years old, she could do a you know, round off flip flop back handspring. And
of course, Staci’s like three years old and sees that she she wanted to do that. And so she
was constantly pestering her mother, | want to do a round off flip flop back, | want to do a
round off flip flop back, because it was so sexy. It was so spectacular. Everybody wanted
to see Stephanie do it. The older sister, she was getting so much attention. And so you
know, my wife said, Okay, well, here's what you need to do. You need to learn how to do a
forward roll first. Staci says | don't want to do a forward roll. | want you around a flip flop
back. Yes, but there’s a progression. And you've got to go through the progression. You
can accelerate the process, but you can't circumvent it. And that's such a great lesson in
building a business but also in personal development is just understand, and we talked
about this in one of these previous Ask the Mentors - Everything is a process. Everything.
And once you recognize that everything is a process and you have to try to identify what
is that process. And then once you enter that process, you need to make sure that you're
disciplined to stay with the process and not attempt to circumvent the process in your
enthusiasm to get through the process. And if you'll do that, then the focus is pushing
yourself into the process until you get to the point where you're stuck. And the whole point
of mentorship is at that moment you get stuck is that you have a group of people to
mastermind with to quickly get you unstuck. Because the way you accelerate the process
is, is the times that you get stuck and you're waiting to figure out what to do next, you
literally have to feel like you're underwater unable to breathe. And if you don't solve that
problem, you're going to drown. And you have to have a sense of urgency. |, | can’t
circumvent this process, |, you know, I've got to figure out quickly how to breathe. There's
no way out of this tunnel, I'm swimming through a tunnel under water, there's little pockets
where | get to breathe, | got to find that pocket right away, or I'm not going to make it. |
can't quit the process, I'll just be trapped in this thing forever, right? There's no escape,
follow the process all the way through. Okay, so there's that | have one other thing. Okay,
Mark had to jump. So bye Mark, sorry | didn't see that until just now. And that, what was
that other thing | was just gonna say, and | Oh, my father was in high-tech manufacturing.
And | didn't really understand business or much of business. And so you know, you look at
what your dad does, and you kind of follow it and think that you want to follow in his
footsteps. And then his younger brother, who became my sales, my first sales mentor was
in office products. And | ended up spending a long career in office products, because | got
mentored in that. But what | realized is that office products wasn't manufacturers,
because | dealt with manufacturers. And we weren't that. We bought stuff from the
manufacturers and put it in the warehouse. And then we sold it to the customer. So we
were in distribution. And then | realized, wow, there's a difference between manufacturing
and distribution. And | thought, Gosh, distribution so much easier, right? I'd go toward
these factories and look at these big equipments and managing supply chains and, and

having to deal with raw materials and finished goods inventory. From an accounting
product, what is the minimum that | must have in place in order to be able to go generate
revenue, and then whatever it is, you define, and part of that is going to be a legal
structure, it could be an accounting structure, you know it, whatever it is, then you may
have to go find a relationship because well, | don’t have a deal, | got to go find somebody
that has a deal, or | gotta go find a deal. Right? Whatever it is. And you have to decide
that for yourself. It depends on what you have to work with, you know, if you were in our
circle, | would be talking to you about assessing what it is you have to work with, you
know, where are you at you personally, terms of your time, your resources, you know, what
you've got going your relationships, everything, where are you trying to get to, and the
first incremental milestone is I'm trying to get to my first breath, I've got to get to my first
breath. And when you think of it that way, becomes very, very clear, creates urgency, and
it creates clarity. But you can't do it, if you're if you don’t have control over your own
schedule. And so when you look at your schedule, what | do is | keep a 21 day minimum
time diary, 24/7 365, every minute of every day, what | do, then | go through it with color
coded highlighters. And | started identify things and | blew them out things that |
absolutely should not have done. That was a complete waste of time served no purpose, |
must discipline myself not to do that thing anymore. The other thing is | find things that
are, you know, low priority that can be easily delegated, and | need to move them off. If |
need to hire somebody to mow the lawn. If | need to hire somebody to do the grocery
shopping, then you start thinking and the resistance is Oh, and then it's going to cost me
more money. And I've got all this money going out in the business again, how committed
are you and confident are you that you're going to be able to draw that first breath, when
you start breathing, all that stuff is covered. So the first investment you're doing is buying
back your time, if you have aspirations to be a $500 an hour guy, then you shouldn't be
doing $100 an hour work or $50 work or God forbid, $15 an hour work right? You hire that
out right away and get your calendar back. So anyway, | could go on and on. But | won't.
Staci, you know, you've obviously worked with a lot of startup guys and been through

startups yourself and with me, what say you?

Staci Gray 24:23

So | agree definitely getting control of your time, but from a more tactical perspective.
And having now organized a lot of syndication businesses, | think one of the things that
you need to decide as a syndicator is what type of syndicator you're going to be. If you're
going to be the capital raiser and the operator, or if you're going to be the capital raiser
and co sponsor, or what type of syndicator you're going to be and then look at once you
make that decision. And having done this quite a few times, | would say the heaviest lift is
if you're going to try to be the capital raiser and the operator because you're essentially
building two businesses at once. And that's a really heavy lift, the easiest thing to do to go

bigger faster, is to just co sponsor, it also will give you credibility. And it will also give you
Russ 05:12

Yeah, so I'm gonna jump in and try to address Chloe's question. So she says, you know,
can you give a definition of business operations, like the full scope of what's included? If
you just look at a traditional organizational chart, starting at the tippy top, you have the
owners, the shareholders, and then the owners and shareholders elect the board of
directors, these are the people that have oversight over the executive team, who are
actually working inside of daily operations. And so sometimes there's a bridge person that
you'd call the chief executive officer / chairman of the board. And that's somebody that
sits on the board and explains to the board what the company is doing internally, and
then shares the vision of the board with the executive team. That is typically the CEO.
And then the president, the President is usually somebody who's a little bit more
operationally minded, handles the day to day. And the CEO is somebody who is typically
a little bit more strategy minded, vision minded. Now, obviously, in small businesses, or a
lot of businesses, you have people wearing more than one of those hats, even at those
upper levels, because you have a, you know, you're the owner, you're the board, you're the
you're the CEO, and you're the president, right, that's not uncommon. But if you really
think about the roles, as you look at your business in terms of roles, instead of people
which, you know, if you work with Staci, and certainly anything we are going to teach you,
we're going to teach you to always think in terms of roles and responsibilities and know
which hat you're wearing. In fact, one of the very first things you have to realize is when
you're the owner of the business, and when you're the employee of the business, and even
though you're both, when you have the owner hat on, or when you have the boss hat on,
you're, you're planning the work, you're thinking strategically, you're organizing the time
and the resources, then you put your worker bee hat on, and you just follow the script, and
you don't think yours is not to, you know, a reason why yours is just to do or die. And a lot
of times where I've messed up in the past is I, you know, | start thinking in planning, and |
get all excited, and | started doing before | really thought the plan through and then | go
off half cocked and make a mess. And the other part, which maybe is even worse is when
I'm actually doing the work the way | scripted it, | start redesigning the work on the fly. And
that's also the kiss of death. And so you have to have those, those things. So that's, that's
kind of the top end. Now to come back to your question. Underneath the president, there
are three or maybe in today’s modern world, four primary pillars, or functions that you
have to have. And the first one is sales. And under, you know, part of that is marketing.
Part of that is customer service, but anybody that is responsible for bringing customers in
the door, and and you know, finding them, talking to them, selling them, and then
servicing them after the sale, all of that happens kind of in the sales and marketing. And
so typically, you have a vice president of marketing or a chief marketing officer that sits in
that seat, and that’s what they own. Now, obviously, there's a lot of interrelation
interdependence. But but that's their primary function. The next function is operations or

production or fulfillment. In other words, the sales department is going to take an order,
Now if you have good property management, people that are on deck that want your
business and are willing to, you know, be Have you not be a customer, but would back you
up, given the opportunity that can be okay. But if you have an ongoing relationship with
somebody, and you really are test driving, you know, how they're performing, you know,
then you can borrow from what you learn to make the other person good. You know, it's
it's, again, I’m, | believe having redundancy at all vital functions is the most important
thing. And just being a good customer and paying well and paying on time. And treating
people with respect is good enough to get loyalty that you don't have to put all your eggs
in that one basket. But again, | could argue both sides of it, and | understand the
arguments. But | think, | think redundancy and vital function super important. So one
thing, you know that | think you already know where you're going, and | just know your
personality type. Scott, you're a nice guy. Nobody likes to have to fire anybody. But
they've already quit, right? If they're not doing the job, you're not firing them, you're just
helping them follow through on the decision they've already made. They've already made
their if they wanted the job, they'd be performing. They've already decided to quit, they're
just milking, milking you. And when it comes to the point where they're milking your
investors, your first and foremost, loyalty is always going to be to your investors, it has to
be doesn't mean you don't take care of your team. But you have to take care of your
investors because that's that's your primary responsibility as a syndicator. And again,
there's, there's schools of thought, right? Southwest Airlines is famous for saying, hey, the
customer isn't always right, we take care of our team, and the team takes care of the
customer. | totally get that. And | know Stacy's, to a degree that way. And | think that's
important. But but that’s when you're operating from the standpoint of, you know, the
investor. And yeah, technically Southwest is got obligations to the shareholders. And, you
know, but but ultimately, ultimately, when your syndicating private capital, you can't ever
do anything that isn't, first and foremost about taking care of your investors and getting
getting weak players, you know, underperforming people fixed quickly, is among those
responsibilities. So | would go for redundancy, have somebody picked out are auditioning
for the part so that if the conversation does not go, Well, you can plug them right in, |
would not go into that conversation without having that in place. And again, this is really |
know, this is kind of like a deal or type thing or sales type thing. But really, it’s an
operational thing. Because the key component here in operations, is every vital function
being backed up. Team. Yeah, yeah. Because Yeah, | mean, you can imagine imagine
football team if they didn't have a backup quarterback, a backup line, minute backup,
running back a backup anything. Right? You have to have redundancy at game time.
Yeah, my business, we just call it to person integrity. Same thing with today. And in our
security world, multi multi factor authentication, right, a two person integrity, always
make sure you've got a second person who knows and can translate that information or
takeover at any given moment. Yep, exactly. Exactly. Okay, so we're at the top of the hour.

Does anybody have any closing thoughts or comments, questions?
JO

JO

58:42

This has been awesome.

58:46

That makes me happy. | like it better when you come with your questions. But you know,
we will always be able to, you know, strike up a conversation. There's always things to talk
about. But | would encourage anybody now and in the future, coming into any ask the
mentors, really think about where you're at in your business, really think about the topic at
hand, and take advantage of the fact that Well, we're small, this is very intimate, and
you're getting a lot of one on one that ultimately, you know, it won't, won't be, you know,
you won't, won't be able to get this attention. So take advantage of it while you have it.
Russell, you planted a really good seed for me one that | caught on to for syndicating my
own project. And so I'm going to I'm going to dig into that a little deeper. I've got a
different problem to solve, obviously, Assistant, I'm talking about it, but but that's
something that I'm going to want to dig into. Okay, well, you can bring that to, you know,
ask the attorney. You know, Mauricio, talk about how you would structure it. You can take
it to the one with Robert about deals. Just remember, you don't have to syndicate the
whole thing. You can take a piece of it right. You know, | just want to buy an existing
partner out. Yeah, perfect. Great. Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, ladies and gentlemen, thank
you so much. Thanks for your time, good session. Appreciate it and we'll get this up on the
platform in the next day or two.
that they're not the right person in the right seat. The only aspect to that is if it's an A
player, that’s over capacity, that person may drop balls, but not because they're not a
high performer, it's because they don't have capacity. So that's the one. And then the
fourth thing is oftentimes what we perceive as people problems is actually a process
problem. So if you're having a breakdown in your with your people, and you may want to
look at the process, so if your process isn't working properly, fix the process, give that
person another shot at it. And if it’s still not working, then that person, it goes back up to
micromanaging, you're the wrong person in the wrong seat. So | would say those are four

things that we do to make decisions and then to deal with performance issues.

Russ 53:34

And I'll add one other thing specific to property management or anybody that is
performing a vital function. Every vital function needs to be backed up whether they're
performing or not. And a lot of times, people who are sitting in that seat feel like that
backup is a threat. And you have to try to get them to understand that the purpose is to
create stability, because life happens to everybody. People get over capacity, people get
sick, people have a family emergency, and all of a sudden, if there's no backup, then they
are either going to fail. And failure isn't an option, especially when you're dealing with
investor money. Or they're going to they're either going to fail, or no | lost my thought.
Sorry about that. | get distracted because the way | have the screen set up I'm not looking

at the person I'm talking to. Okay, so yeah, to capture that again. So

Staci Gray 54:35

So | definitely agree redundancy. I'll just

Russ 54:38

Yeah, but thank you. Thank you so so you got to have that backup. So when you're gonna
go have the hard talk, you're not doing it from a position Oh my god, what am | going to
do if something happens to this person. Because they're in a position to screw you. And so
you have to, you know, have not only ways to make sure they're doing a good job, you
need to make sure they're not taking advantage of you. And espeically with property
managers, so you know, one of the things that we look at when we go into any
marketplace, we look at having redundancy in the property management component.
Now, if you have a big enough portfolio, it’s pretty simple, you split the business. Now a lot
of people will go and you know, there's two schools of thought. And | can argue both sides
of it, there’s the school of thought that if you if you want loyalty, you got to be loyal, and

you need to give them all your business. But the flip side of that is that single point failure.
