Uy Russ 56:59

what else?

©) Scott Florida 57:01

Well, | just, | guess just a little bit of clarity. racer, what | was referring to is, you've talked on a couple of different
trainings that you have a certain doc that you assemble that you send in if somebody asks a question like vscc asked
a question about a given deal. And so it's all assembled. And that way you send that in and then you don't have any
usually you don't have any more issues. And so | guess I'm trying to understand the difference between what Russ is
talking about and what that is.

© Mauricio 57:34

Yeah, those are two separate things. So what I'm talking about theories you're offering Doc, you're offering
documentation, your private placement memorandum is one document, your operating agreement is another
document your subscription agreements, a different document, your investor questionnaires, different document, and
then your business plan. And so it's just a way of organizing once you're done, that's why I'm trying to help clients
now doing this when you're done raising the money, and you close on the deal and you've got a little bit of breathing
room and go back and number one, do your own audit First, make sure you've got all the documentation for
everyone to make sure everybody signed it, make sure you've got all the information you need now, and then
organize them in that particular way that | described. So that if look, even if you need to refinance, and the bank
says hey, | need a copy of your operating agreement, you're not going to send them 35 operating agreements, you're
not going to send them a you know like all the you want to send them one PDF that has the operating agreement
followed by 30 signatures that's that's that’s what I'm talking about there this is more documenting you know how
you met this person you know what you're kidding documenting the fact that you established a subsequent
relationship or just from a marketing standpoint, just just documenting that the relationship with the investors Yeah,
SO

© Russ 58:43

I'm gonna go back it's just two basic categories, you're gonna have a folder that says deals or transactions or
whatever you call it and every deal that you do is going to have a sub folder you know by the name of the deal. And
in that folder is going to be all your documents related to the deal, your due diligence, you know, your formal offering
documents as kit, that ratio is talking about your financing documents, you know, any back and forth you had with
property managers, just all everything pertaining to the deal will be in the deal folder, but everything pertaining to
the relationships with the individual investors will that's going to be in the contact folder, and that's different, okay?
Now, you may or may not need that you can get you know, if you ever get sued, or whatever, and will there be some
crossover a little, but not a lot, not a lot, because you're not gonna include all this proof of substantive relationship or
history or eight steps here. Don't include any of that in your offering documents, you're going to have to prove that
maybe if somewhere down the road, somebody challenges you, either from a regulatory perspective because
somebody complains, because that's usually the only reason you're ever going to hear from a regulator. Somebody is
going to complain, and then they're going to come in and they're going to audit you or you can sued so it's either
going to Potentially criminal, or it’s going to be civil. And you just have to be, you know, prepared for both. And it's
not that hard to do it right. Because as you're discovering as we go through this, the vast majority of things that you
should be doing to protect yourself, both criminally and civilly, are also really good marketing. mean, there’s no
reason not to do it, except people just get lazy because they just want to get the deal done and hustle on to the next
one. And this is not the type of business that you want to be sloppy in your record, keeping in your bookkeeping and

your attention to detail. If you happen to know that you're a sloppy person, then don't try to force yourself to change
just one follow up question on the insurance side is, are those national brokers or are those going to be state specific,
and we're going to need to

Russ 29:08

well, so insurance is sold and regulated on a state by state basis. So if you're a multi state person, you know, you're
going to want to have what | call local teams, in each state, so you're going to have your your home team, you know,
your your, your, your, the people, you know, that you work with your estate planning attorney and your your CPA, your
tax attorney, those types of people. And, you know, sometimes an insurance attorney can do, you can have one in
one place, and they can offer commentary about another place and that's good enough. They may not be able to
represent you, but at least you know, they can give you some guidelines and then you're comfortable with that or you
may feel like hey, | need a referral to somebody that's licensed in the jurisdiction | want to work in and that's true on
the insurance side too. So that’s why you don't want to bred out to like 15 different markets and just do one off deals.
| mean, everything you're doing in this business is about organizing and scaling, and putting systems and
infrastructure in place that you can leverage. So you know, you don't want to go like look for a deal pipeline where
there's one deal, and then you got to go turn over 100 rocks to find the next deal. If you can do deals, where you find
a pipeline event, that's why we jumped all over believes Robert looked at and goes, gosh, you're 66 acres here, we
could make a career out of this. Great, you know, then then then, you know, yeah, all your eggs are kind of in a
basket, but it was a basket we wanted to be in. So it was okay. We have turnkey providers, or we have like we just got
done doing to like Central Florida is on fire right now. And we have to build to rent providers. And one of them | think
is going to be putting together a syndication showcase, where you can buy you know, 1020 3040 properties brand
new in a hot market. Well, even though they're single family homes, you can deploy, deploy a few million dollars in
capital and put it to work leveraging a single relationship, a single team and a single market. And if it's the right
market, that can that can be a good deal. So you're looking for things like that, that you can scale. And your team is
like that, too. Okay. Hey, Russ,

Mauricio 31:17

a couple maybe a couple of points. | know that if they go on the real estate guys podcast under the archives, Randy
has right that was his name of the Yeah,

Russ 31:26

it's ancient. If you Yeah, if you if you search on our site for Hess hgss or you look under the under the Resource
Network tab it says firm is Adelson has some somebody else to search for the key | think, but yeah, they they they he
he's a insurance attorney coverage counsel, they call it and he’s licensed in a few states, | don't remember which
states and oh, California is one of them. And he you know, what they do is they can they can review your your
policies. And then you know, you have to go in and say okay, here's all here's the deal. And here's the kind of risks |
feel I'm I'm exposed to a Will my coverage. Cover it. In other words, when the insurance company denies me, because
that's the first thing they're going to do, and | hire you to go after them and make them pay? Will this policy give you
enough that you feel confident that you can extract a payment from them? And if he says Yes, great. And the other
thing that's great about working with coverage counsel, as opposed to just an insurance broker, is insurance brokers
are really kind of focused on saving you money because they compete on price. And sometimes they'll talk you into,
you know, carve outs that are actually against your best interest. And the other thing is sometimes companies that
have better rates have better rates, because they don't pay out so much. They don't pay out well. And again, your

deal should be paying for most of your coverages. So you don’t want to go cheap on the insurance. Because the
© Russ 53:54

yours? That's your offering document, right? Is that what you're talking about? Mauricio,

© Mauricio 53:58

I'm not sure what | could be. | think what | it’s part of that documentation of that process that we were talking about,
if you're if you're if you're trying to show you have a pre existing relationship, and you're going through these eight
steps, then this would be part of that, that documentation, which is just an add to that we want that's one of the
reasons whenever you meet someone, especially if you meet somebody in an event, | mean, if you go to like the
secrets of successful syndication, and you meet somebody there, that's why it's always a good idea to immediately
the next day or on Monday or next week, send them an email, say, hey, Scott, it was great meeting you last
memorializing memorializing that you may hate me, | thought it was great having coffee with you today, you know,
blah, blah, whatever it is, so you have a date and a record of that of that thing, as opposed to just a journal which is
a journal entry would probably work do but an email is just so much better. And plus, it's good, it's good. It's good
marketing to just reach out and say, especially if you can, you know, | hate for example, | hate this is not really a legal
thing, but | mean, | hate these generic emails that go out to all 200 people that you met. | mean, | you really want to
be able to say hey, Scott was great meeting at you, you know, you would love to meet you up for a cup of coffee next

on him in Florida or something specific, or your dog's doing great or whatever. Yeah.

@ Russ 55:08

And the way you do that, the way you do that is you, you have your generic content as paragraphs 234, and five, and
you have your opening paragraph being whatever you personalize, and so that way you, you can send a
informational email, but you are making sure that the very first paragraph is personalized. And that means you've
kept good notes in the meeting about who they were, what they were interested in the name of their dog, you know,
what vacation they just had, if they just got over an illness, or blah, blah, blah, whatever it is, and you make reference
to that, because it's proving to them and to the law, the law, that you had a personal interactive conversation with
this person. And that's the type of thing | mean, maybe in your critical documents, you have another subfolder, this is
eight steps. And anything that fits into the eight steps goes in there. And now you know, if anybody ever challenges
you on a particular contact, Hey, did you have a pre existing substantive relationship? Yes, | did. | just go directly into
my critical box, eight steps folder, and all the documentation that proves that | did all those eight steps is in there.
Okay. Okay. Same thing you might have, as you might have accreditation, and you have a folder there, whatever
documentation they gave you, or third party, whatever that has to do with that, that’s in your critical doc sub folder
inside the contacts folder that says, hey, here’s my documentation. Now, you may include that, you know, | mean,
because you're going to paper, your your transaction, so your deal folder is going to have a lot of these documents
too. But not all of them. Not all of them. And sometimes we get so busy again, this goes back to the core
fundamental thing is that people in this business, for whatever reason, think so much about the deal. And everything
about the deal, is they really document the deal great. And they don't document the relationship, but it's the
relationship or the lack thereof, or the inability to prove it that can get you in trouble.

&) Scott Florida 56:58

That's okay,
Mauricio 43:07

that's actually right. | mean, that's what you're doing. And so if you're doing a 506 B, like, which | think Scott, you
mentioned, and that's what you wanted to do, then, then you are working on establishing that substantive
relationship. That's the time that you're doing that process. And the only thing you've got to worry about is just don't
condition the market. But if you don't have a deal, you know, basically conditioned the market at that level would be
just don't brag about prior returns or promise them future return. You're just talking more generic, like Russ said, you
know, maybe you're talking about you know, why Central Florida, you really like that marketplace. And you can start
sending out some content and talking to people about why you like Central Florida, what what are all the drivers,
economic drivers that are happening? Or why what's going on with the Fed and the money printing and all that stuff,
why that's a good thing for you, you're just kind of talking in generic, but you absolutely. And by the way, you can talk
about your business. | mean, that's one of the things he said you can absolutely do is just talk about your resume. You
know, what you do, what your experiences, what your what your real estate firm does, again, you don't want to be
promising things and you don't want to be bragging about prior returns, because that might be conditioning the
market. But that’s the time to do it. Like you don't want to wait to have a deal and then start doing the work. This is a
continual process. You're always looking for new relationships, and you're always looking to establish substantive
relationships, you know, every day. So

Russ 44:23

| here's the thing for everybody, and | hope people get this message is that that so many people because people
who get into this business are usually transactional oriented. They just think about their deal. They think about
getting people in their deal, and everything revolves around the deal. The deal is the sun to the solar system. | don't
suggest you look at it. That way. | think that your deals revolve around your database, and your database is the sun
of the solar system. And so you're constantly looking to grow your database and so everybody you meet is a
potential person to put in your database, but you have to have different development tracks to put them on. And
then you have to begin to use your communication to prepare them. And it’s not conditioning the market, because
you're not conditioning them towards a specific deal. You're helping prepare them to recognize a good deal when
they see one, and one that’s right for them. The other thing is, is you're you're building the credibility because this is a
business of trust. Trust is gravity. Trust is the gravitational pole that keeps people in your database. And that attracts
the deals to them. Trust, and you build trust in terms of two key areas. Well, there's several, there's six, and we
covered them at the syndication meetup. But the two most important ones are going to be competency, and
character. And, you know, the surest way to convince people that you're dishonest, is to brag about your own
character, so you just have to exhibit it. And over time, it'll happen. And then and then the other part is on the
competency. You don't, it's the same thing. If you brag about your team, it’s pitch. But if you work them into the
conversation, or for example, you know, Dave Zook does this as he takes his CPA, and he uses his CPA to do a
educational component to teach us investors about tax benefits of investing. Well, right away, he’s building the
credibility of both himself and his CPA welke simultaneously developing the sophistication of his investors, while
simultaneously creating a filtration process that people who get through that and are interested in follow up, you
know, they're they're going to do that. And then people who aren't are just going to continue to go on to the next
educational piece, you can also drop things into conversation. So you know, instead of saying, you know, oh, you
know, you're my, my tax guy is the greatest tax guy ever, and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Instead, you say, you know,
hey, you know, just the other day, they heard the cares Act came out, and | called up my CPA, and here's what he
told me, right, and now you're adding value to the person because you're talking about something that's a current
event that they heard about, they may or may not know how it benefits them. But you're you're just kind of having a
friendly conversation where you're putting things into the conversation, that are designed to test their interest, give
them some charm, give them something to bite at some bait, to get into the conversation at the same time you're

painting a picture of who you are, and what you think about and what you care about. Without bragging or even
talking about yourself, you know, you're just having this casual conversation, and you're also building up the
credibility of your CPA, so you accomplish a lot of things without ever really having to be salesy at all. And when you
master the art of conversational sales, it’s easy. Because you're not dealing with sales resistance, you're not dealing
with people whose guard is up because they can see you coming a mile away. And of course, you know, it's like
anything else, when you have the ability to get into somebody's heart like that, you have to tread lightly, you have to
use that trust that you've developed carefully. Because the other see that you have to have in it out of the six C's, you
know, character, and competency is you have to, you have to have consistency. You know, if if you're only nice to
them, if you only talk to them when you have a deal, and then you go dark on them the rest of the time that tells
them something about you. And it’s not what you want them to see or hear. But if you're just you know, maintaining
relationships for the sake of the relationship, and you're just building trust all the time, and building their
sophistication all the time and testing your interest all the time just pivoting off of whatever's going on in your life
and whatever's going on in the world, then things will just happen. Does that make sense? Oh, yeah, for sure. | mean,
when you hear it, it’s like common sense, but it just boggles my mind how many people get so wrapped up in their
deal? And they don't want to talk to anybody until they have a deal? And then when they do they only want to talk
about the deal and it's just about them and me and | and what I'm interested in what I’m trying to do and they think
the world revolves around their deal and it doesn't revolves around the relationship and growing your database is the
most important thing if you grow a big database, you're gonna attract a lot of money and a lot of deals.

gravitational pull.

Scott Florida 49:16

Okay. Now, just a follow up on on that so that is the definition pre existing substantive relationship. So for example,

Russ 49:29

pre existing the deal pre existing the deal, right? Correct. Yes. Yeah,

Mauricio 49:34

that's right. Good pre exists the offering correct. Somebody somebody this morning was asking me about it. Can |
establish it before the sale of the security? No, it's once you once you start your offering, right, whatever that and
that's open for interpretation. But certainly when you are hire a lawyer or you already started some conversations,
whenever that date is when did you start the offering, then everybody you meet after that would not be eligible into
this pre existing relationship?

Russ 49:59

Yeah. If you You've got the deal under contract but you haven't formed the entity or you know you haven't formed
the offering document can make the argument that when you were in the conversation, you had your mind on them
as prey to put into this particular deal, that's the way the law is going to try to paint you. Okay? And so you're sick.
No, no, no, no, no, we've been friends forever, we've been talking about investing forever found this deal and wanted
to share it with them, right, and you're trying to shift the narrative over to you know, who you should be, which is
somebody that is genuinely out there looking to help people achieve their goals based on their needs, their wants,
their desires, and your understanding of that. And they trusted you not because you sold them pie in the sky, but
because they understood the deal. And they could see that what you had found was good. And they chose to do it of
their own freewill. And they were qualified to have an opinion. | mean, that's basically the gist of it.
establishing that substantive relationship

&) Scott Florida 14:30

with you. Right, right. Because | understand that right?

© Mauricio 14:33

Um, one of the things we have to keep in mind is that the rule, the rule says that you cannot advertise and you
cannot solicit. That's what the rule says. That's the actual rule. Okay. One of the ways not the only way, one of the
ways that you show that you did not advertise or solicit is by having a by showing that you had a pre existing
substantive relationship with your investor. That's not the only way but that's Most likely the most common way to do
it right? a referral is another way to do it. Like | may not, you know, | may not know Ross and you introduced or vice
versa. Like you may not know Ross and I'm like, Hey, | think Russ might be interested in this deal. Let me make an
introduction to you guys. You don't have a pre existing relationship with Russ, but you haven't advertised to Russ.
Right? You've got him through my referral. So. So in your other in your example, you just gave, if you've got a buddy,
that you had, you know, you've known for 1020 years, and you're literally picking up the phone and having
conversation with him. You're not | would argue you're not advertising to that particular individual. You've known him
for a long time. Does it make sense to still go through the process? Sure. But | think it’s, it's much different than if you
just meet a complete stranger, you know, on Facebook, or a seminar, or however, you legally obtained a stranger, it’s
somebody that you've known for a while, then | would argue you haven't, you're not advertising, because you've
known him for a really long time. That doesn't mean again, when you shouldn't have phone calls, you shouldn't have
document that you should probably, you know, | would still probably send them that questionnaire that you probably
have now, because it's part of that ebook, you know, sending that questionnaire and have some phone calls with
them. Because you know, there's one thing to have a beer with somebody for 20 years, you know, Robert always has
that great story of his, his drinking buddies, right, but they didn’t really know anything, they know him as the drinking
guy. And because they're college friends, and then, you know, one day, he shows him one of his beautiful properties,
and they're like, oh, tell me about this real estate stuff. Because, you know, that's just how they see you. But um, so
anyway, | just think it's a little bit less strict. If you if it's somebody you already have a relationship with for many,
many years, that still doesn't mean that you know, their finances. So you still want to go down that route. But | would,
| would venture to say that the strictness of those eight steps that we typically go through, when we have a total
stranger, you can probably argue that if he went through two or three of those, that might be good enough, because
again, you haven't advertised to that person.

© Russ 16:53

Okay, so let me just toss something out there, because, you know, it really all comes down to He who has the best
documentation fares better. | mean, that's ultimately the way it works. So you know, if you, if you have phone calls,
you know, make sure that you have phone records and a phone diary that you can illustrate the, you know, what you
talked about, and that you have phone records, third party records that support it. If you go to lunch, or dinner, or
spend time together socially, then keep those receipts and mark down that that's what you did, | mean, not just for
tax purposes, but for showing that you spent time. You know, Robert, back in the day, we used to take a lot of people
to concerts, but we had the concert tickets, and we had, we could show that we had spent time together, | think a
great way to do it, once the world opens back up, again, is to attend investment conferences together. | mean, if
someone's a serious investor, and you say, Hey, come on, you want to come to this investment conference with me,
and they're interested, well, then you're there and you totally the subject matter is going to be about investing. And

you're gonna have lots of opportunities, not just to get to know them and prove that you've gotten to know them, but
they really are looking at the quality of the interactions and these eight steps that they go through really is meant to
illustrate certain the ways that you can establish these will go about having that quality interaction with with your
prospects.

&) Scott Florida 22:17

Okay. Good. So, a follow up question to that. Do you have to prove sophistication from the investors that you're

working with? It sounds like we're trying to document that.

© Mauricio 22:31

Yeah, you're you. You can rely you can wrote the sophistication. What you're trying to figure out in this process is
whether the investor is suitable. It's kind of what Russell's talk about, you're trying to figure out if they're suitable for
this investment, are they sophisticated, you're trying to make that determination, right? And so that’s what this whole
thing is about. You're trying to figure out if this particular prospect the definition is something along the lines up? Do
they have the business and financial knowledge to be able to evaluate the risks and the merits of the investment?
That's what you're trying that's really what suitability is or sophistications events are intraday that's what you're
trying to figure out during this process. Are they sophisticated and that's just you know, there’s no mean you're going
to prove it in the sense of each of the steps you're going to document the steps that you took every lunch meeting
every call every every event every email you're proving that but the the final decision really is you're making a
judgment call and you say look, today is a day I've had I've had these many conversations and | think I've spent
enough time with Scott that | truly believe | he’s sophisticated | believe the we have a substantive relationship and as
of as of August 19, I'm gonna say we have a substantive relationship now Scott's eligible for any future deals.

© Russ 23:46

Got it? Okay, so Jana, | know you're here and we didn't see any pre submitted questions and Scott said he came with
a big long list but you know, before we let him dominate the the deal here, we're happy to do and happy that he's
here and he came prepared Do you have anything you want to ask? Mauricio

© Mauricio 24:06

| mean Jana | don't right

@ Russ 24:07

now | what came to learn and and the internet in a very flattering pose, | must say. So sometimes that happens okay,
are you back you came here to learn and then you disappeared. And the question was okay, well I'm gonna
disqualify you from asking questions because you have a crappy internet connection.

© Mauricio 24:38

That's not her fault. | have a crappy it's these internet connections are awful.
entities first. That's where you want to make sure that you put your corporate formalities there. So you're saying that,
you know, I’m not acting in my capacity as an individual, I'm acting in my capacity as an officer or representative of
this entity. Did that answer the question? Yes. Do anything you need to clean up there? No, other than | think

© Mauricio 12:33

if you go on the real estate guys website under the resources page, my my article eight, it’s called eight critical steps
to practice and say syndication, | think that's on there. If not, | can email it to you. But there's a structure on there in

one of those steps. So you can actually clearly see, here's a syndication, here's the management company, here's the
holding company, it kind of separates everything out for you. So you may want to check out might be helpful. | got

&) Scott Florida 12:57

that one. | just needed to hear it again.

© Russ 13:00

Yeah, it takes it takes time. And that's why we do these things. Because you know, when the student is ready, the
teacher appears. And so you know, when you have a mentor, | mean, when you when you when you go to school and
get a degree, you get taught something in a clinical sterile environment, and you go in the real world, and you only
remember, like 5% of what you learned. And if you don't have a mentor there who really knows what they're doing to
kind of answer your questions in real time, then you're likely to step in something. So this is what the whole mentoring
club is about is, is having a place to come where you can ask your questions. So | appreciate you guys being here. so
fantastic. Thank you. Yeah. So Scott, let's go ahead and just toss it to you since you're on on right now. What? You
have some questions. Go ahead.

G) Scott Florida 13:42

Well, thinking about the bee exemption. Bees and bred bees and buddy, buddy, okay.

© Russ 13:51

Now | remember a bee isn't buddy.

©) Scott Florida 13:54

Okay. Well, now you take somebody that you've known for decades, okay. They've been a longtime friend, but you
haven't walked them through the questionnaire, or I'm assuming you have to do both. It's not just a matter of they've
been my friend forever. But there's also it sounds like there's a process that we have to walk them through as well. Is
that correct? My understanding that properly?

 ) Mauricio 14:21

That's a great question. It gets tricky, a little bit. So let me just backtrack. So what you're talking about, obviously, is
a ~ a

there. And so the flip side of that is, you know, they're probably going to end up being some messes that need to be
cleaned up in some opportunities, and the more capital that gets aggregated and deployed, kind of like the white
core puzzles of the economy to get in there and clean those things up, the quicker the economy heals, and properties
get put back in service and people get repositioned, and, and all of that, so, okay, well, good. So | the only thing |
had that | just want to talk about, quickly, is the the idea of just being very mindful of corporate formalities. So | think
one of the things that we set up in our entity structure is a way for us to conduct business and not be held personally
liable. And of course, if unless you're structured through some type of an asset protection trust, the path to getting to
all your personal assets, is to pierce that corporate veil and get directly to you and make a claim that you yourself as
a natural individual, and not operating as an officer or representative of a legal entity, which is the shield, that when
they get through to you, then they have access to everything that you own. And so one of the very important things
that you need to do is corporate formalities. And | think a lot of people don't realize that's all the time, that isn’t just
in a document that you prepare when you're signing formal documents that's in your emails. That's when you do a
webinar, you need to introduce yourself if you notice, every time | open these things up, how do | introduce myself, hi,
Russell, great co host of The Real Estate guy show. In other words, I'm making sure that people know that I’m
functioning in a role inside of an entity structure and not as a natural individual. So | don't want to belabor the point,
| just want to make sure that people are aware of it. Even things as benign as texts and voicemails. any piece of
communication in a digital age is probably stored somewhere and can show up when you least want it to in
something called discovery. And when that happens, the argument is going to be made when you're signing things
or making comments and you're not formally telling people that you're operating in your role as an officer or
representative of an entity. The argument can be made doesn't mean they're going to make it doesn't mean they'll
win it, but you give them a toehold to make the argument that You are personally liable for whatever went wrong.
And that's the path your personal assets. So, Mauricio, do you want to embellish that in any way, shape or form?
Before we move on to the questions?

Mauricio 05:10

| mean, that's no, | think that you're spot on. | mean, you know, creating that separation, originally, when we set it up,
making sure everybody's got separate bank accounts, making sure you're treating it to the outside world, that you
are a separate entity from your company. And like you said, it’s when you're introducing yourself or even when you're,
you know, signing documents. | mean, | think you've talked about it before, but make sure you're and | see this a lot,
because one of the things we do Ross is, is we audit all of the all the syndication documents at the end of an offering
now and so | see and one of the reasons | want to audit is make sure that everything gets signed by the investors and
a lot of the passive investors just aren't that sophisticated. So they're investing through an LLC, but they're providing
their personal social security number, for example, as the as opposed to the entity etn. Or their money is coming
from their personal account, or they're just not signing it properly. Instead of instead of signing it, Russ gray,
comment manager of blank, they're just signing it Russ gray, almost like in the person capacity. So it's always like |
said, always on always, all the time. Always on the time. Yeah, but just just ensure that we're always be mindful of
that you're really trying to keep those things separate, obviously, no commingling but even when you're just signing

dogs, everything's Always be aware of that.

Russ 06:19

Yeah, yeah. And, you know, | mean, to me, it's like Facebook, |, you know, | my Facebook is a public figure Facebook
page, not a personal Facebook page. Because | couldn't, | couldn't stop people from tagging me professionally in my
personal page. And so all sudden, | had all these linkages between my professional life and my personal life. And |
didn't want them. So | just got rid of it. So | just have, you know, a public figure page. But if you're going to have a
private Facebook page, a personal page, and you're going to be talking about what you do, and you end up
inadvertently saying something, just just, you know, be mindful Mauricio, maybe at some point, it would make sense
difference between a quality policy and quality carrier and all of the right coverages and something that's less than

all that is not that much money in the overall scheme of a big deal. So you don't want to be Pennywise and pound
foolish in a very litigious business.

© Mauricio 33:13

But | would check out those two, | think he’s on there twice, | would definitely check out those episodes, he'll he'll give

you the the primer on the types of policies you should be looking at and the things to look for. So that's probably a
good resource to have.

© Russ 33:24

Yeah, | mean, it's the boring side of the business. But you know, you're going to be glad at some point down the road,
probably that you knew these things and put them in place before you needed to know them. Because having to find

out about them when you need to know is the wrong time. Right. Okay. What else got another question? You said
you had a big list?

© Scott Florida 33:43

Yeah. So you talked a little bit about secondary, like referrals? mercy, | think you mentioned something about that. So
somebody has heard about the deal, or, you know, I've got a friend that I've worked with for a lot of years. And |

know there's to be sophisticated, they tell somebody else about it. | didn’t have a substantive relationship with them
when this deal started. How does that work?

© Mauricio 34:12

works great. So again, you have to remember the rule is you cannot advertise or solicit. And so if somebody makes
an introduction to you, you have not advertised to that person or solicited a couple of important things. One, again,
all goes back to documentation. So you want to make sure you have something in your records in your file that
shows that they made the introduction to you, it wasn't like you went out pursuing them. So either an email from
Mauricio to you say hey, | want to introduce you to Russ. Russ might be interested in your deal. Or maybe you know,
Russ reaches out directly says hey risio said | should reach out to you that you know, it makes sense for us to have
something like that in your file. The other critical piece to this is, is maybe not obviously but you cannot compensate
that person for that referral. But if they make the referral because they | think it's going to be a win win for everyone,

and you end up talking to that person and, and they invest in you again, you have not advertised to that person, it
was a referral. So it works great.

@®) Scott Florida 35:10

Okay, so that's an okay thing is that an okay thing then to communicate with the existing investors that you have to
say to them, Hey, | can't advertise this deal. But if you know of somebody that

ro ) Mauricio 35:23

|, you know, that's one of the reasons | don't bring it up too much. | mean, you don't want to get too carried away
with it either. So you know, if you end up having a deal, where 80% of your investors came from referrals, it may look
like you're pushing, you know, you're pushing people that refer you and that's not going to look good, either, I'm
talking about a natural referral ad. For example, if you can do a presentation, like Hey, everybody, just refer me I'm
doing the webinar, everybody just refer everybody to this webinar, and then you do the webinar presentation, that's
not going to fly. But if it's legitimately, you know, either prior and prior investors, or even better, or just relationships
that you have, because you may, you may, you may offer to somebody, like I'm tapped out, | don’t have the
resources, or I'm not interested in whatever asset class you have. But | have a friend of mine, who's an investor, and
he's looking for something like this, do you mind if | make an introduction, that's the way you want to do that, but
don't get too carried away. That's why | don't bring it up too much. Because then people get carried away with it.
And they try and set up schemes to take advantage of this, and they get carried away,

© Russ 36:17

you know, let me hit it from the marketing side, because | don't think you ever want to ask for a referral for you to
help you solve a problem. In other words, it’s like, well, | can't advertise. So please help me, right. I'm just not a
believer in that. So it's more like, what you're doing is you're recruiting your investors, your current investors to realize
that you are a partnership, you are a family. It's like growing a church, you know, what your, what you're doing is
saying, hey, the more people we get on board, this bus that are the right people. And so | can go out and look for
strangers. And I'm always looking for good prospective people to bring in, but the best people are going to come
from the people who are already here, inviting their friends and family. And so if you know anybody that you think
with, like, who we are, what we're doing and could benefit from it, you know, please encourage them to send me a
message and just drop your name so that we all know, you know, how they came in. And, and, and then I'll be happy
to share this with them. Okay, now, you know, you're you're asking for something where they get to go give
something you're not begging, you're not asking them to help you solve a problem, you're engaging them not as
customers giving you referrals, so you can have more customers, but you're helping them really help you build a
business that they're a part of. And that strength is going to allow you to continue to go find more and bigger and
better deals so that as they continue to prosper and profit, you will always have opportunities available for them.
And that the people that you're going to be involved with are going to be good people. And and then of course,
you're also making sure that you have good documentation about who referred them to you. And you know, the ideal
is you get an email that says, hey, Scott, you know, Joe Blow told me about you and said that, you might have some
great investments. And I'd be interested in hearing about that. | mean, you have that golden that, that now you've
got it well documented, | didn't solicit this person, what you don't want to do is have somebody bring you an email
going, here's an email you sent out where you begged your whole list for referrals and all these people came in, right?
That's basically advertising. Maybe not from a legal perspective, but that’s my ratio. It’s like kind of on the gray. It’s
like, Okay, well, all these people on Facebook are my friends. And so if | asked my friends for referrals, they refer

people to my Facebook and | sell them. Now that’s gonna be advertising.

© Scott Florida 38:46

That makes sense.

© Russ 38:50

Okay, what else?

® Scott Florida 38:54
August 19, 2020 - Q&A LIVE Call on Legal and
Compliance with...

@ Wed, 9/29 11:22AM © 1:04:36

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

deal, people, mauricio, document, talking, insurance, investors, relationship, business, questions, referral, documentation,

person, syndication, entity, advertise, scott, corporate formalities, structure, signing

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Mauricio

Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ and I’m here with Mauricio for our monthly q&a call on legal and
compliance issues. You know, we all know that real estate syndication is really a lot about. Sorry, it's really a lot about
obeying the law, right? You've got to navigate the law and make sure that from marketing, to presenting your deals,
to prepare your documents to dealing with things, when they go sideways communication, there's just a lot of things
you need to be aware of. It can be a little intimidating. And so that's why we do these things. Because we, you know,
the whole concept of the mentoring club is the idea that you're always going to have a place to go where you can
get some at least preliminary guidance, getting kind of a handle on what's going on. And of course, you know, we're
not here to give legal advice. Even though I'm ratios, an attorney, we're not giving legal advice, we're giving you ideas
and you can engage your attorney, Mauricio or whoever it happens to be and you know, when you're paying for that
advice, then it's legal advice. But these are this is ideas and information to help you make better business decisions
and know when you need to consult an attorney. So with that kind of is the preamble. Let's go ahead and get the
show started. So Mauricio, Mauricio, do you have any opening comments, anything you want to update people on
maybe anything that has changed since the last time we did this that you want to draw to their awareness before we
open it up to q&a?

Mauricio 01:47

Not really, other than | feel like people are starting to come, you know, syndicators are starting to come out of the
woodwork a little bit more, you know, after that initial freeze, people are either feeling more comfortable getting
maybe more importantly, more clarity from the lenders. And we've just been getting busy. So and a lot of funds. |
mean, | think we talked about the funds last time. So but still a lot of people looking to put together funds, that
seems to be still the the overwhelming majority of the type of deals that we're doing, you know, the last six weeks.

Russ 02:18

Good? Well, | think that that makes a lot of sense. You know, | just read the other day that FHA reported a record
spike, | think, a 60% increase in defaults or delinquencies. And so not saying that those things are gonna go all the

wav to foreclosure hit the market. and crush whatever market so thinas are in. but it definitelv is a sian of stress out
@) Scott Florida 50:50

So that referral piece wouldn't work in that type of situation. So in other words, | got a friend we, they, they're get
excited about the deal. They say, yeah, I'm gonna put 100 grand in. my other friend might like that. That person, that
other friend is off limits, as far as for this particular deal,

© Russ 51:09

depending on the exemption? No,

© Mauricio 51:11

no. So remember, it's one or the other. So again, the rule is you cannot advertise or solicit. So you can either show
that or prove that you did not advertise or solicit bias, showing that you had a pre existing substantive relationship,
that's one way. Or you might show it because you have a referral, | was a referral to you, oh, it’s one or the other. Like,
if I'm going to go this route, then | don't know this person, | just the concern is if you're like, you know, you're on
Facebook, and you said, or you met them at an event, that’s where you're probably going to go with, hey, | didn't
advertise this person, we had a pre existing subsisting relationship. But if you get the referral, you're not relying on
that, you're, again, you're trying to show that you did not advertise or solicit that person. And the way you would
show it in that instance, is that, hey, this was a referral, | didn't advertise this person rastrick recommended this
person to me, here's my email, and that's how | came kingdom.

© Russ 52:00

Yeah, so that means in your databases, you know, you should all have original lead source and original, original lead
method. In other words, you know, who introduced me to this person? And, or, and, or, how did | meet them, got it.
And you want to have that, and they don't you, you want to have it, it’s not just, you know, like a data entry, but you
want to have it linked to some document. Okay, you know, so so every person you meet, you should, | hope you're I'm
going to kind of get into the operational weeds right now. But you know, you should have a folder on your computer
somewhere, that's called contacts. And inside of it should be a bunch of sub folders ABCDE. And inside of each one
of those by last name should be everybody that you've ever met or known. And then when you open that folder, all
your documentation on that person should be in that folder, you know, emails, and whatever. Now there are
databases like act or goldmine, or whatever that that kind of index all that for you. But I’m still a big fan of keeping a
separate folder. Also, just in case you you don't want to these fancy pants databases gets corrupt, I'm not saying you
want to, you know, PDF, every single email transaction that you have, but anything notable, you know, about original
lead source, sophistication, surveys, questionnaires, you know, document offering agreements, all that stuff you want
to have in there, and maybe you even want to have one sub folder inside that contact folder that says critical
documents. So that everything that's really, really important, you've isolated into into their, you know, documents
where they've signed where they've agreed where you've made a material representation, and you can prove that

you made that material representation, or answered a question or

© Scott Florida 53:43

whatever. Is that the would that be the same file that Mauricio has been talking about where he's going to go
through and make sure you got all those basics assembled for that sounds like that's
that you actually talk to them about investing, and they had a degree of sophistication. Because ultimately, the
argument is, Hey, you, you found this stranger, you told him half truths, promised them the moon, you the whole time,
we're just trying to, you know, get into their pocket, and then you took their money, lied about it misrepresented the
deal. And now we're suing you for everything you have that that, you know, and none of Of course, none of is true.
But you'd be just amazed at what people do when they when they think they can get some money out of your
insurance, or they think that your deep pockets. So you just want to be sure that you're always prepared, like having
any other form of insurance. It's something that you spend a little bit of time and money on, that you hope you never
need. And probably never will if you do good clean business. Right? But then there's things that happen that are
completely outside your control and unsophisticated people will blame you because COVID-19 came and you should
have seen it coming or picks pick whatever. | mean, we got it handed to us after 2008 because people felt like we

should have known we didn't, we'd never been through anything like that. So okay,

Scott Florida 19:11

good. So it sounds to me like it’s not just the relationship itself, though. That's really as far as the legal side, that's
where it matters. But also just for the safety of the investor, the context and the content of the relationship matters
as well. So it's not just having a relationship, but the content of that relationship, like what you guys talk about makes
a difference as far as your safety, for one sense in the deal itself. In other words, you're, you're less likely to have a

problem if you've communicated well. But also from the standpoint of, you know, the relationship is still the central

thing.
Russ 19:53
Well, I'll give you the marketing side, Mauricio can give you the legal side. So the marketing side is that you should

never do business with somebody that doesn't understand what you're doing? Right. Okay. And so if you're having a
substantive conversation with someone about all things, financial and investing, and they are asking idiotic
questions, they can’t understand basic concepts. Yeah, then | don't care if they can stroke you a check for $10 million
that they inherited in a trust fund, | wouldn't touch it. Right? Okay, no, | would, | would, | would take my time. And just
keep telling them how much you care about them, and how important it is that they really understand. And politely
suggest to them that based on the types of questions, they're probably not ready to invest yet, but you're, you're very
willing to help them get up to that level of sophistication, you can recommend books, go to seminars, to watch
videos together. | mean, there's lots of things. And of course, by doing that, you're not only helping them become
more sophisticated, but you are, you are painting a very clear picture, that you you know that this, you developed a
substantial relationship, | mean, because there's two parts is relationship, which can be time and spending time
together. And then there's substantive depth, it’s quality. So that that’s my nickel tour ratio. Now, that's

Mauricio 21:15

the key term, like if you read the SEC guidelines on this, and that that no action letter, it’s the quality of the
interaction that the SEC is the most interested in. And | always give example, in a russky of the great example of
investment conferences. The other thing that as you guys know, the real estate guys do a lot of our these field trips,
right? So if there's a difference, if you went down to Belize, for example, pick on Billy's, it's probably my favorite trip.
But if you go down to Belize with somebody and spend three, if you've been on any of these trips, you know that it’s
like go go go go from the minute you wake up to the minute you go to bed. So if you're spending three days with this
person in a boat at breakfast, or lunch, talking examinable blah, that's totally different than if you just had them ona
newsletter, right? Where you drip them once a month, | mean, you could have a five year relationship, it’s not going
to be as good as those 72 hours and get that field trip or at your conference or or wherever you're trying to get. So
What walkthrough, if you don't mind, like what you can talk about before you have a deal. And what you when when
you start, like presenting an idea or a concept to somebody, the | guess I'm a little fuzzy on? Do you have to have a
deal and it be in place before you start talking about it? Or when you got somebody that you're building a
relationship with and you say, this is the kind of stuff that | do. | just try to be clear about how those specific pieces of
the puzzle work.

Russ 39:32

So | like to answer the legal part, which will be the bulk of it, but I’m just going to say this, you should always be
talking about your investment philosophy, your investment strategy, how whatever is going on in the world that
people are attuned to, because the media is making them attune to it to what the Federal Reserve is doing, where
interest rates are out what the stock market just did. Whatever big news scandal is going on. Obviously, there's a
huge economic impact of this COVID-19 crisis. And so you know, if you're talking about those things that's going to
attract people who are also thinking about those things and are wondering, so that's just providing thought
leadership, but you're not talking about your company, you're not talking about your deals, you're not even you know,
you're certainly not offering anything in particular, you're not telling success stories, you know, what we're receiving
probably would categorize as conditioning the market, all you're doing is stimulating conversation, demonstrating
that you're a person who pays attention and chumming the water to see who will bite. And you can do that all the
time. And then that becomes the basis of topical relationship development, because then you begin to have a
conversation. And is, you know it to me. And of course, if I'm wrong ratio, and I'm leading him, you know, if I'm a Pied
Piper leading him to trouble then slap me down. But But | just feel like that, that that is a very generic type of thing
you should be doing all the time, constantly.

Mauricio 41:08

Yeah, | agree. So the best Look, the we talked about this, at the syndication seminar, right, the best time to get into
relationships is when you don't have a deal. It's in between deals or prior to your first deal. So you're the first
question, it does come into play a little bit as like, like trying to figure out early on what exemption you're going to
rely on. Because if you're going to do a 506 c, where you can advertise, then you don't really have to worry about
conditioning the market and setting things up like that. Because Because it’s not going to matter. But you do

Russ 41:37

have to worry about putting chum in the water that will attract accredited investors. Sure, sure. Right. And that's my
that's kind of my point. So you know, what, you start with that as the foundation and then once you have engaged
those conversations, then the question is, you have to try to determine in those conversations if the person is
accredited or not, if they're sophisticated, or not. And then if they're not sophisticated, then you need to have some
type of a path, you put them on, whether you put them on a newsletter, invite them to webinars, go to conferences
with them, whatever, where you begin to help them develop their sophistication. Now, you may not be telling him,
Hey, you're an idiot, I'm gonna, you know, but what you're doing is you're just, you're inviting them to that, because
that's all you can offer them, that's all you're willing to do, but you have a path for them. So you have a path for
them. And then you're gonna have people who are accredited and if you're, you know, you got accredited, and you're
going to build that list. And if you're going with the reg, you know, a C exemption, then you're just, you're free, you
can just go ahead and send them whatever. And that's fine. If you have somebody that is non accredited, or you're
not sure is accredited and or you know that you're going to be relying upon your be exemption, well, then you're
going to be working on cultivating that substantive relationship. But you you wouldn't be offering them anything that
was all ready being offered where you're offering documents are created and dated before the date you actually met
them. Right? Am | correct? In that ratio? Yeah, no, that’s,
© Russ 24:43

I'm spoiled because | have 1000 gigabyte connection. I'm very happy with my internet connection. Now watch all end
up freezing. Okay, well if you do think of something, just wave at me, Jana and I'll call on you. So | just wanted to give
you a fair shake. So Scott Next question.

© Scott Florida 25:01

Well, one of the questions that you kind of answered in a little bit, but | was thinking about where legal and insurance
meet or crossover, and you talk specifically about under the management side where the DNO and he, you know,
would show up. But that was another question that | had related to just asset protection in general, and specifically,
what I'm looking for in, in these structures.

@ Russ 25:26

Yeah, so there's a couple parts to it, | think that, you know, you're gonna want to have commercial general liability
insurance, which is the insurance, you know, it's like having in a live bit liability insurance at home, it doesn’t protect
the property, it’s if you know, slip and fall if something goes bad, right. So if there's a problem on the project on the
deal at the deal level entity, that you're going to have commercial general liability insurance, you may need, you
know, employment insurance or something like that, depending on if you're employing people, | mean, you know,
you're going to want to meet with a good insurance broker, and make sure you understand the different risks that are
there. And you know, it’s not a bad idea to also have, you know, whoever your transaction attorney is, you know, your
real estate attorney in the transaction, because usually those folks are local. And after a while, you'll learn, you know,
on a specific kind of deal, the kind of things like if you're a developer, and you're building something, you know, you
have that 10 year window where they can come back and claim, you know, building defect or man, your, you know,
developer defect. And so there's specialty insurances for the specialty risks that different types of deals have. So part
of your due diligence on your deal is just understanding what those risks are and protecting, you know, both yourself
and your investors from whatever that those those liabilities are. But your personal structure is really the DNO and
the E and O at the management level. And then probably having set up your personal assets, at least maybe doing
some equity stripping, which is where you set up an entity to hold liens against the equity in your properties, or you
can actually set up your revocable trusts, as another mechanism, you can even go as far as to take some of that
offshore. So again, I'm not going to get too deep into the weeds on that in this that’s where you would talk to you
know, somebody like a Kevin de, and he can get into that for you, you know, these structures aren't inexpensive, both
to own and to operate. But at some point in this business, you get big enough, it makes sense. But, you know, if you're
doing big enough deals, there is not any reason not to load up your your deal entity with insurance. | mean, if your
deal entity has DNO insurance, for example, then that would protect the management entity and the individuals who
are making decisions even though you know, your double dip, you got DNO on your management company and
DNO on your syndication company. And when you look at the line item on a budget, it might be a blip. | mean, if
you're doing a small deal, it's big, but if it's a big deal, it might be, you know, a basis point it might be negligible. And
then you might decide that that's worth it. So it really, you know, your insurance package, if you will, is going to be
customized for the specific kind of deal you're doing and the specific kinds of risks that you're exposed to. So | can't
really, you know, I'm not an insurance guy. | have a little bit of background, but | think that you want to have a good
insurance person and a good real estate, you know, transactional attorney, whoever, and who really understands that
kind of niche that you're operating in? And then have a candid conversation about where the real risks are? And how

do you how do you protect yourself and your investors if something goes sideways? Okay. Or

® Scott Florida 29:01
to do a module and just kind of dig into that a little bit, specifically about corporate formalities in the digital age.
Because now that we're in this COVID-19 world where a lot of our business is being conducted online. The challenge
is that so | want to take a look at the chat. | should ask me if you want me to record as well. Okay. No, | think | got it,
it's good. So | think the challenge is, is just being really aware of how to maintain that that corporate structure so |
mean, | touch on it in the secrets of successful syndication when | talk about the insurance component, but but I, you
know, we don't really get into the nuts and bolts bolts of it. We did a TV show once with Garrett Sutton, and we kind
of really did a whole episode on corporate formalities. We dressed up in tuxedos and we had silver platters we
champagne, it was really, it was Garrett's idea. It was really funny. But but | think it’s important point. And and
especially because when you're out there operating your operating and signing for maybe multiple entities, and you
have to always remember who you are. That's why I'm a big favor, favorite of having a structure where you have a
singular management company. And that way every time you sign it's always the same Russell gray, president of
ABC management company, LLC, on behalf of transaction or deal entity or blind fund, whatever, right? It's always
the same. That way, even if | forget which fund I'm signing for, at least | always know that when | sign I'm signing as
an officer of my management company. And that’s where my DNO and my you know, insurances. Okay, so we can
shift now to Scott to your questions, unless anybody before we close the SEC, this little topic has any questions about
anything we just talked about?

&) Scott Florida 08:50

When you said management company, is that the overall entity for or is that specifically just for your management

piece,

© Russ 09:00

so I'll answer and then ratio, you can clean up everything | get wrong. But the kind of the core structure that I've
always used, and that | advocate in the way we illustrated at the secrets of successful syndication, you can go back
and look at the insurance module. And you can see that basic structure. And Kevin de and | are actually working on
a piece of content that we'll get into more detail if you really want to more rock solid structure. But basically, you're
going to have a holding company, which is where you're going to hold your interest as a passive investor in your
deals. And that company doesn't really do any business with third parties, it doesn’t make any management
decisions. It just holds your equity in the deal, just like every other would be investors and our normal terminology.
Okay. Then you're going to have the entity that you're investing in the whatever is doing that Deal, the syndication.
So you're holding company as a co investor, along with all of your other investors, and then you do your deal,
whatever your deal is, but the person who's actually running the ship, making the decisions, the sponsor, the
syndicator, you know, it's really the manager, the executive, that can be in an LLC structure, it can be an individual
person, or it can be an entity. And so we call, we favor again, I'm not giving you legal advice, but we favor the idea of
doing your management through a management entity. That's your management company. So it’s basically an alter
ego for you to operate in your capacity as the decision maker. And so directors and officers insurance gives you as a
natural individual, Scott, Florida, the protection insurance protection against any lawsuits that come against the
management company. And then the errors and omissions insurance gives the management company and to a
degree you kind of through this DNO it gives you coverage, if you make an error in you know, mistake, or if you have,
you know, an error of committing an error, or omitting making an error of not doing something you're supposed to
do. So errors and omissions. That's what it is. It's like malpractice. Right? It doesn't protect you from doing things, you
know, maliciously, or gross negligence, right? And and that's what the law we say they'll they'll try to make you
personally liable. They'll tell you that you misrepresented You're a liar. And that you were grossly negligent, grossly
incompetent. And those are all three techniques that lawyers use, correct me if I'm wrong, Mauricio to try to pierce
the corporate veil. So you want to make sure that but in that structure, they've got to get through the corporate veil

and through your two insurance policies to get to you. Okay, and to make sure that they have to go through your
to ) Mauricio 1:04:21

Thanks, everyone. Bye bye.
hire somebody who is anal retentive, organized and work with them, and your counsel to your CPAs to make sure
that you have clear standards and expectations of what the documentation in the filing isn't where everything goes,
you know, what Stacey would call SOP, standard operating procedures, and you get all that nailed down. And then
you also set up a time maybe a few times a year, where you do random audits, where you check your documentation
to make sure your team is doing what they're supposed to be doing. And, you know, and if you do that, you're gonna
have a good clean, you know, business and a scalable business because if you don't, then what happens is in all
these loose ends that seem like okay, | can fit them in the corner of the room and hide them under the rug. Pretty
soon, you've got this giant boulder under the rug, and it's like, oh, my God, it’s I'm gonna have to quit business and
spend three years to clean all this up. Before | can move forward. | know, we all know what that's like, right? If you
don't, you don't put your laundry away at the end of every day and the end of the year, you know, you watch these
quarter shows, and these people like they turn an ordinary house into a literal dump. Yeah, right. Well, you don’t want
your you don't want your business to be that way. Okay, so we're at the top of the hour. And | think we covered a lot
of ground. Is there anything that you had on your list? Hopefully you did the 8020 rule. And you asked your most
important questions first.

@) Scott Florida 1:02:07

|, you know, | think we answered really, all the questions that | had, | feel like | drank out of a firehose, it'd be good to

have this on the portal, so | can go back to it.

© Russ 1:02:17

So yeah, well, that's why we do it. And we appreciate you and for those of you that are watching after the fact you
know, you guys might want to give a shout out to Scott for coming and giving us the basis to create some good real
world content because we you don't we don't script these things, we we ask you to come in and ask your real world
questions so that we can deal with real world issues in real time. And you know, we don't really come in prepared, we
just talk off the cuff based on our experience, and if we can't, if you stump us, and hopefully you will, then we'll go
figure it out together. But that's how we learn. So you know, kudos to, to you, Scott, for coming and being prepared.
And | just encourage everybody watching this after the fact however long it is from the time we originally recorded
this in August of 2020. Please participate in these things community calls, the forums, the Q and A's you know, ask
the mentors every way possible. Because when you bring your questions when you bring your problems, we're going
to give you the love, we're going to give you the our best. But you're also going to help us create a great library of
content that will help accelerate the learning of everybody in the program. So thank you again, Scott, for your
participation. and breezy Oh, thank you for your contribution. Any closing thoughts counselor?

© Mauricio 1:03:31

No, | really I'm going to go back to the recording because you had a great, quote, trust is the gravitational pole and

then | lost it. So | wanted to grab a great quote, but I'll go back and find it and post it out for everyone.

© Russ 1:03:43

Well, | find that if you have good vision, good visualization, good word pictures in your mind, then it’s easy for you to
understand really what it is you're you're doing. And you know, trust is the gravitational pole that will attract money
and your deals to you. And the core of your universe is people and relationships, not deals. Your deals revolve around
the people, not vice versa. If you get that right, you'll build you'll build a tremendous business of goodwill. Okay. All
right. So that's a wrap for today. We'll do it again next month, and | appreciate everybody's participation. Thank you.
