JO

JO

without actually about content creation. So obviously, for the real estate guys that is more established, it's very clear
who our target demographic is what we want to be known for in the world and what our strategic positioning is. So
as you're going about creating content, | think it's really important to identify who your target market is. And don't

put out content just for like, put out content for what you want to be known for.

Russ 32:52

Yeah, so think about, think about who's talking, that’s your voice and style guide. And then who you're talking to,
that's your avatar, and always shoot center mass, you're going to you're going to hit stuff, because you won't always
hit on target, you're going to hit people to the periphery, but you're always aiming center, center of the target. And in
our case, we have three different demographics that we're talking to. So we're very clear, we talked differently to
each one of the three, we talk to investors who are investing in real estate in their own account active and aspiring,
we talk to active investors who want to go to the next level and are willing to go learn how to raise money to do what
they want to be entrepreneurs. And then we have high net worth people who want to invest passively. And so those
are all, they all we need to feed all three of them. And we need to balance the menu or we can't keep them all in the
restaurant, if you will. But when we actually go to serve each individual person, we have to customize the meal that
we're serving for what their appetite really dictates. Okay, good question. Billy, you got something. So you come to

the party with with a question for us.

34:00

First, of course, in apologies for drawing late. Crazy Crazy times here.

Russ 34:07

Hey, Louise, if you're settled down, you can turn your video back on it's fine with me. | just saw that moving around

was | was getting dizzy.

34:17

So and | don't know if this has already been addressed, but somewhat piggybacks on what what Jake was talking
about or the question but it’s really more about the organization of the marketing calendar. It kind of what you've
seen, noting the fact that you're really clear on avatar, what you found to be the best way to create that marketing
calendar so that you're getting the right the right rhythm of information to your to your avatar. | know Yeah.

Russ 34:49

So we're digging a little deeper now that we've got more people on the bus and we're getting more sophisticated but
up to this point when especially just kind of grew out of When | was a one man band, my basic premise was based
on Jeffrey Gitomer, you know, value value value ask. So | would start out, you know, assuming that our rhythm was
that the podcast, we were doing the radio show on Sundays. And so based on a radio show on Sunday seemed
reasonable that we would release the podcast version within a day of that. So we release the podcast on a Monday,
try if we can get it on a Sunday. Great. There's some issues that we have in terms of being consistent. But, you know,
the, I'm just going to tell you the way it's on the drawing board, you know, you script the play on the chalkboard, and
then you run it in the field. And it doesn’t always go quite as scripted. But the idea is that, that, you know, when
someone's going to begin their work week, and they're gonna, you know, commute, go to the gym, kind of get back
evidence till the hearts place the order. Okay, so you've got people in California, and you're trying to talk to them
about moving their equity out of California. But they're still in love with California. They're not interested. So you
don't have anything to say yet. You have a lot of things to ask, because you still have to search. So, you know, again,
I'm going to just roleplay a little bit make it up as I'm going along. But you know, I'm in a conversation. And you know,
I'm talking to a California based investor. You know, my question is, how are your California based investments
doing? How do you feel about? Oh, they’re doing great. Oh, really? What do you like best? They're gonna tell you
what they buy, what they like what they want, oh, | bought it, you know, six years ago, and I've doubled in value.
Okay. They like equity. Do you have any concerns about it in today's environment? | mean, with everything going on,
if you thought about how what's happening might affect your property? Oh, no, | don't think it's going to do
anything. Oh, my gosh, yes. I'm really worried, you know, | think prices might drop. You have to find out what they
think. You can't talk until you know, what they think and how they feel about it. what they think is the what, how they
feel about it is the why. And you have to use your questioning technique to pull that out of them. And you have to
have both the carrot and the stick. What are they like? What do they want? What are they worried about greed and
fear the to investor emotions. And again, right? Just keep sticking with it. Right? Because | know | just sit here and |

do it. And I've just, but you know, as soon as | say like, Oh, yeah, because you've heard it. But you still don't have it.
It's not second nature to you yet. Like it is for me. You just have to keep working. You will get there. | mean, | wasn't
born this way | had to learn it. You can learn it to. There's nothing complicated about it, but it's just a lot of repetition.
So after you have an engagement and | say this all the time. Sit down with your journal and debrief. What did | say?
What did they say? How did it end? Is that good? Is that bad? What could | have done differently? Did | talk too
much? | mean, | just did an interview the other day with Brian London. | don't know why | Brian has been very kind to
me. He always says nice things to me. | just got a little too full of myself. had a couple of cups of coffee. | was amped
and | didn’t come across as a researcher on a journey going where the facts lead, realizing that nobody knows all the
answers. | came off, you know, just as a blabber mouth. No at all. And as soon as | get down with the interview | |
apologize both to him and to his host and | said I'm sorry | was so chatty. And you know, they both said it was fine,
but neither one of them said it was great. Because it wasn't and | was like God and | know better right? But | didn't
just let it lay. | didn’t run away from how | felt it's like okay, why why did | go there? What made me behave that way?
What's going on inside me that's making me behave that way? Am | insecure? Do | feel vindicated? What is it and
you know, that's what | journal in the morning try to figure that out. So it's the same thing with your sales technique
at the end your sales technique, you have to dig through the rubble of what you just did, and it’s it's bad. If you were
bad, it’s not fun. It is no fun having to own your mess. But it’s the only way you learn Robert said when he got started
in radio he was told by his teacher, their mentor in college radio, that if you want to get better you have to listen to
yourself how many of you like listening to yourself? It's awful. Nobody wants to listen to themselves especially when
you barely know what you're doing Billy talked about on nerves right? | mean you do the podcast and you guys are
like oh my god | can't believe that was me I'm so can | can we redo it? Can | just delete that episode like it never
happened? Right? You Billy he’s laughing. He knows exactly what I'm talking about. But if you want to get good You
have to listen to yourself. You have to look at yourself objectively, you have to own 100% of how you show up. | mean,
|, | still think of myself like I'm 25 years old. But every time | see myself on video or a picture of myself, | am reminded
that I'm not 25 years old anymore. And | hate it. | hate not having hair, | hate losing my hearing, | hate wearing stupid
glasses, right? There's, and you know, | do my best to take care of what | got. But | just, you know, time isn't your
friend. But you just you got to deal with it right? At least at least in sales, you have the opportunity to improve. Right?
You mean, I'm getting old, there’s nothing | can do about that. | can just try to make it last as long as possible hang
on to use as long as | can. But, but but your sales skills, it's never over. You can continue to be improving your skills.
2030 4050 years, and | am. | mean, I've been at this a long time and I'm still critiquing myself, I'm still catching myself
making mistakes. But if you stick with it, you'll get there. But do the debriefs don't shortchange yourself on that, or
you'll just keep stepping in the same mess over and over and over again.

© Staci Gray 56:19

| think also doing the debrief with somebody else. | mean, right after he had that call with Brian London, he was on
the phone with Steph and | was like, | don’t know what got into me. And you know, because | feel like when you
JO

JO

internalize it, it just weighs on you. When you just say, Hey, | messed up, | don't know what happened. You're human.
And then you can banter it out with somebody, | think that feels a lot better than just, like letting it grow in your own
head and heart.

Russ 56:44

Yeah, well, you can laugh at yourself. | mean, | have to laugh at myself. Because what else you gonna do? | mean, you

know, | feel bad. But it's certainly not the first stupid thing I've ever done and clearly won't be the last.

Staci Gray 56:58

And it's part it's part of the process. Um, some of the big time marketers and sales people, they say you're not
embarrassed by the first things you put out, you didn't start soon enough. So you're just gonna be embarrassed, it's

just part of it. Yeah, |

Russ 57:11

mean, you sales and marketing, like any form of art is putting yourself out there. It's expressing yourself it in you, you
not everybody's going to like it, you know, you're not going to be everybody's cup of tea, your investment philosophy,
your personality, type, your style, your demeanor, not everybody's gonna like you. That's okay. | mean, you don't like
everybody either. And SAP, you're probably one of the nicest people on the planet. So, anyway, hopefully that helps.
But that that, again, there’s even a process for improvement. And that is the debriefs. And in the beginning, they take
a long time. And that's where | think Stacy’s point is well taken. That's why when we do the sales training, we teach
you how to be an observer, so that you can observe, you learn to look for the technique and others you can do it
when you hit the replay button in your, in your own mind, and you go through critique yourself, just like you were at
sales training, take out your sheets, and go through it and say, you know, did I? Did? i? Did | do this? Right? You know,
there's just a few core principles, you know, | know | drag it out into two days, but really, it's like 30 minutes worth of
stuff to kind of memorize. And once you've got those patterns memorized, then it’s just learning how to use them to
draw people out and to go through the human interaction process. So okay, well enough on that anything else? Kind

of a free for all now,

58:44

actually, Russ, | was just gonna just say one thing. I've actually we've done 30 interviews so far. And I've, it's been
painful. | go back and | watch and listen to each one. And yes, it's definitely painful. But you see the, the
improvement one of one of the things | was gonna say maybe set also, to take advantage of this moment with
COVID. And having those types of conversations you what a lot of times will do is ask people, if they would be open
to me habit recording the conversation, because it's something that | used to reflect on afterwards, just to make sure
when we're having another conversation or follow up, that | am listening and hearing things properly. So we have our
follow up conversation. And usually people are very open to that. And even more so. So now. So that may be a way
to do to do both things, have more conversations, and then also be able to go back and do that live journal that rest

is talking about.

59:36

Great idea. I've never done that before. It's a great idea, Billy, thank you.
that, then you're not ready to talk to an investor, you got to go do your homework. So that makes sense. And so you
find out how unprepared you are when you get into the real world. And you run into things and you're like, you know
what, | don't have my ducks lined up. But if you know the template if you know the formula, because that's all I'm
doing. I'm just you know, because you've been through the training 100 times, right? I'm just going through the
checklist in my mind right now. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And just you give me the scenario, | know what to
do. without knowing anything about the deal. | don't need to know anything about the deal. | No need to know what
| would need to do if | was in your situation, exactly what | need to do. I'm in a sales conversation, not a marketing
conversation. | have to agree with whatever they're saying and draw them out. And then | have to determine Is this a
genuine? Is it a real objection? Or is it a smokescreen? So | hypothetically eliminate it and find out if there’s anything
else and if they're just keep flushing until | get it all out? And then once | get it all out, | have to take them one by one
and | have to determine are they genuine? Or are they misunderstandings, misunderstandings, or easy feel felt found
evidence. Okay, if it's legit, then you have to cop Same with the with the pluses and minuses, the Ben Franklin, look
at all these wonderful things are going to happen in order to get all these wonderful things, you're going to have to
take this risk, because you're all investing all of life is a risk. When you decided to get out of bed today, you took a
risk, you could slip, you could fall, you could eat something bad. | mean, there's things that could happen, right?
Every day, it’s risk versus reward. And as an investor, you have to make a determination, | can’t tell you what's right
for you. | can tell you what other people are doing, | can tell you what I'm doing, | can tell you the work that I've
done, to take advantage of the opportunity maximize the opportunity, and minimize the risk. And here's what that
looks like, based on this. Mr. investor, do you think that this risk is so high that you wouldn't want to take advantage
of all these benefits? And how does this compare to anything else you're looking at? Because people get lost in their
head, right? If they're looking for an excuse to say no, and that they're going to Yeah, but you Yeah, but yeah, but
yeah, but yeah, but you know, to the end of the day, calm Yeah, butters, they're gonna Yeah, beat you to death. And
you know what, but if they've already done business with you, they're probably not that type of person, whatever
they are expressing is probably a legit concern. And the fact that they're asking you and the fact that you're having,
if you know how to go through the sequence, like I'm teaching right now, you're actually going to become smarter
investor, because you're going to prepare better. So when you get in those situations, you really have done your

homework, not just talk, but really have done it. Does that make sense?

A 16:35
It does, yeah, especially doing this before having the the conversation, | think that would definitely it would just help
having those talking points and being more systematic. As far as the thought process and having those
conversations | | asked them this question they keep talking about and I'm agreeing with them, but |, | feel like I'm

kind of in the passenger seat recently, instead of being in the driver's seat, leading them

© Russ 17:00

around. Yeah, well, | mean, you know, to be a thought leader, you have to study harder, you got to get up early, you
got to read more, you got to think deeper, you got to listen to more people. And then you have to take all of that, and
do your homework on your specific deal and come with evidence and talking points and support that they don't
have. You know, that's, that's what you got to do. The other choice is you just, you know, just throw a bunch of stuff
against the wall, and some will stick if you talk to enough people, no matter how bad your presentation is, if you talk
to enough people through dumb luck, you'll get business but you got to have skin as thick as a rhino. | just | wasn't |
wasn't good enough, | wasn't tough enough to do that | had to become great at sales technique, because | hated
rejection. And | learned | had to do my homework and | had to memorize those patterns and principles if | got them
I'd have to memorize the words | was hard enough to memorize my facts. And remember, you know, the individual
situation what the person's thoughts were their, you know, just kind of understanding their needs, wants desires, goals
and objectives to carry that in my head. And the information about my deal | couldn't carry a bunch of words |
couldn't memorize, what | had to do is just remember the patterns and the patterns | tried to make in the sales
© Russ 22:45

Yeah. plagiarism. Number one, not having an original thought not having to do you can't be a thought leader by
quoting other people. That doesn’t make you a thought leader, it makes you a thought quoter. And you can't be
expert in everything I've tried. So you know, | decided to really narrow my focus and become a thought leader in one
area, and it took 10 years. And even, right, so the other way to do it, depending on how you do it, is to associate with
other thought leaders, and do what Robert does. And Robert is a world class interviewer. So Robert puts a lot of time
and effort into drawing great thought leadership, out of true thought leaders in their individual niche. And then we
weave all that together in a show. And you know, | just get the book and if | don't have to do much heavy, heavy
lifting on the show, because it's just tee up and, and in rap on the back end. And then Robert does the heavy lifting
of the interview in the middle. And the experts do the heavy lifting of providing thought leadership. And we just have
a couple of little things that we you know, we have. And so I'm almost like the in House Financial strategist, that’s my
positioning. And so | have to be really good, are kind of a thought leader in that one little area. But | guess what I'm
saying is, and maybe I'm overstating it, but just stay in your lane know who you are. Don't overplay your hand.

A 24:17

Gotcha. | like that. Thank you. And I've got one other question too. Sure. So | see you, you know, | see you producing
a lot of content on a lot of the different social media platforms. | guess what sort of systems or processes do you
have in place to produce that much content on a regular basis? Are you doing are you like bath producing all this
content? like once a month? Are you doing this more on a daily basis?

© Russ 24:43

Can you see the big smile on Stacy's face because she knows that | don't do any of that. Gotcha. I'll tell you from my
perspective, the way it works, and then I'll let see she tell you the way it really works. So from my perspective, | do the
podcast And | write the newsletter. And then | do the sales copy, which right now has been a little bit lacks or soft,
because we haven't had any events to really promote. And so that's, that's really about the extent of it for me. When
| do that, the team then takes what what we say on the show, and what we say, in the newsletter, and maybe other
places, but those are the main places, and then they just pull things out of it. The only other thing | do is the Sunday
inspirational quote, | handpick all of those, obviously, | don’t write them, | read a couple of them. But | do that. And
then. And then it's really the team’s job. And the challenge that Stacey has because she runs a team is to make sure
that whoever sitting in that seat or those seats, loves our content. And it really embraces it's not just a job, they're not
just clipping, they're not just you know, sifting through things with a highlighter and picking things that sound good.
But they're actually qualified to have an opinion because they care. And | know that's been a bit of a challenge for
her from time to time. But | think that from the beginning, when Stacey started doing it to all of the different people
who have been doing it along the way, you know, it's been fairly steady. And | think, more good than not, sometimes
maybe a little trite. And that’s when Stacy steps in and tries to tidy it up a little bit but but I'll stop commenting now
and let Stacy step in and, and kind of tell you more mechanically what goes on and clean up anything that where |
may have misspoken.

@s) Staci Gray 26:44

For the most part, that's pretty accurate. So we, the guys create a bunch of content. So they write the newsletter, or
Russ writes the newsletter, they do the podcast and | don't know if you follow any of the big time social media people
like Lewis house or Gary Vaynerchuk, or anybody like that. But they, you can really, Gary Vaynerchuk has a piece of
content out called How to turn one piece of content into 64 pieces of micro content. And it's really good in terms of
JO

JO

let me ask you this. If this concern didn't exist, is there anything else that would prevent you from moving forward?
It's just the one thing the technique never changes. Because you're trying to isolate Is this the real deal, or is this a
smokescreen See, you don't think that way in marketing and marketing, you're just talking. But in marketing, your call
to action isn't send me a check. It’s let's get into a conversation. When you're in a conversation, everything you're
saying and doing is very different, because your call to action is to sign here press hard and send me money. Right?
Those are two very different sales. So one product is you're marketing yourself to get engagement. The other one is
you're using that engagement to make applicable the features and benefits of what you have to solve their unique
problem and overcome their unique concerns and get them to make a move. Now the good news is you're talking to
people that have already gone before. So have you had a real world conversation with somebody that said, Hey, |
don't want to move forward? Because let's see, | got to read this again. Because

10:56

| can | can summarize

Russ 10:57

job losses, I'm concerned that your properties presumably aren't going to cash flow. So I'm reading between the lines,
if I'm in the compensation, | say, Oh, yeah, job losses are concern, you know, for a lot of people, why is that a concern
for you? | want to understand if they see well, because you have job losses, and you have income? Well, you know, it's
it's the amount of job losses, so you're going to have to, then you're going to have to know your market, you're going
to have to explain why your deal makes sense. Now, | can't tell you because | don't know what market you're in. |
don't know what your deal is. | haven't done any of your market due diligence. | don't know what the economic
drivers are. | don't have any statistics from property managers, as far as how many applications have come in? How
many people are paying how many people have, you know, are on unemployment? You know, they're paying, but
they're unemployed. Right? Yeah. Hopefully, you know, all that stuff. That makes sense.

T2302

Does, yeah.

Russ 12:03

Because remember, when you're dealing with objections, and that's what we're talking about, going back to how to
win funds and influence people when you're dealing with objections. They're either genuine, or they're
misunderstandings. If it’s a misunderstanding, then you overcome it with evidence. And so you have to have facts.
And you have to do it gently, because you're not there to make them wrong. You're just there to explain, you validate,
hey, that's a very valid concern. In fact, | had that same concern myself feel felt found. | know exactly how you feel. |
felt the same way. Here's what | found out. | met with my property manager, | saw the Chamber of Commerce. | did.
And you show them the evidence, say, based on this course, nobody knows what the future brings. But this
marketplace hasn't dramatically changed from where it was before. Could it get worse? Yes, it could go to get better.
Yeah, if it gets better, the deal might not be there, the deal might not be as good. If it gets worse, then we're
prepared because here's my financial model. And we could withstand this. And we think we can compete because
here's the things we're doing in our property, we're going to get our unfair share of tenants, because these things, and
these are all things as a as a manager, you should be thinking about anyway, if you're doing a SWOT analysis on
your deal, strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats, then you ought to have strategies to emphasize your
strengths, take advantage of opportunities, and mitigate your weaknesses and mitigate threats. If you haven't done
that's the first one.

© Russ 02:29

JO

Okay. So help me understand a little bit where’s that coming from? Are you just trying to figure out how to talk to
people are you running into something in real life conversations, where you kind of like getting writer's block when
you're trying to think about how to push stuff out there. Again, separating marketing is about pushing a message out
there, which is designed to make a first impression, build your brand, and then create some level of, you know,
continuing reinforcement of that brand, and then ultimately lead to some form of engagement. Sales is when you
take that engagement and work through a needs analysis, and then demonstrate the features of your offering in the
context of their need, which makes those features then benefits and then dealing with their misunderstandings or
genuine objections or concerns and then working through all their inertia their natural resistance to change and
helping them ultimately make the decision so right now this would fall I'm saying probably under the category of
marketing is that right SAP? Is it yes, you pushing stuff out there?

03:40

Well, marketing leading from conversations I've had with investors on the sales so it’s the feedback that I'm getting
from investors. So yeah, there's there's a little bit of a misunderstanding, as far as | want to say in this understanding,
but | don't, | think they're, they're more or less speculating. So it's, | need to find out how | can market to them, to
move them from speculation to calculated risk, calculator and investments.

© Russ 04:04

JO

Okay, so so so there's a difference, right? Between marketing when you're sitting there in your office, which | like your
plants, by the way, very nice. When you're sitting there in your office, and you're pushing out a message, you've got to
hit kind of a broad spectrum. And you are, you know, aiming center mass at your avatar. But you're you're really
trying to put something some chum in the water, if you will, that's going to get someone to bite or you're painting a
picture of who you are with the idea that you're going to become so appealing at some point they will engage that's
what marketing is. If you're actually having a conversation with a real life investor, and they're saying, hey, these are
things I'm concerned about. That's no longer marketing. That's selling. So the reason I'm making a distinction is
because how you know what | say? He’s going to pivot off of either I'm going to get into volved in a dialogue, and I’m
going to roleplay with you a little bit. Or we're just going to talk about how we would what we would say, to solicit
engagement. So again, I’m going to ask again, is this you talking to your marketplace? marketing, in general terms,
building your brand and trying to get engagement? Or it could be based off conversations you've had, which is fine?
Or is what you're doing, actually dealing with a specific investor who's looking at a deal and saying, No, no, | don't
feel comfortable moving forward because of this uncertainty.

05:41

Okay, so that's more clear. It's more of the first it's more the first of the feedback that I've been getting from the
conversations with investors. And then and then the second is, it's not it's not an objection from an investor. But it’s
investors that say, like, they're liquid, they have dry powder, and they're, they're, they're leaning more towards
California, then maybe what else can come up the road that come down the road? So that that question kind of
came from investors, they got paid off recently and asking them, hey, if we find good opportunities, are you guys

wanting to reinvest, so some of them have faded off a bit enough of that, and then others are, are more wanting to
into their weekly rhythm. The podcast is there waiting for them to add value. The on Tuesday, we send out a podcast
announcement to remind everybody on our email list, hey, we just did upon a podcast. And the reason we do that is
because not everybody on our email list, is subscribing to the podcast, although they like to listen to it. And so and
the other reason is, is because now it’s a second touch. We're offering something for free, no, ask, just free. On
Wednesdays, we do the newsletter. And the newsletter is a big meaty piece of content. If you kind of go through the
work rhythm, you know, the Monday through Friday. Oh god, it’s Monday, how can | cling to something that isn’t my
work, right? | can listen to something that maybe | can fantasize. Someday | won't have to get up on a Monday and
go to work, | will learn how to become wealthy. So that's the podcast, the reminder, the podcast on Wednesday, it's
Hump Day. And Wednesday. It's like Oh, man, | am in the thick of it. And | could use a serious distraction. And so we
give them the newsletter on a Wednesday. Now we've gone podcast, podcast announcement, and newsletters, give
give give, on Thursday, you're over the hump, you're thinking, hmm, I'd like to maybe do something fun this weekend,
your mind is starting to focus forward. And so that's when we do our event promotions. Because we figure we're
going to catch somebody in a psychological slant, where they're going to be interested in getting out doing
something interesting, but we're building on who we are and what we've been selling, which is Hey, you can have fun,
we're fun guys, and we do fun events. But you can also get out of the rat race and, and all that right. And so now
we're at we're in even then in a you know, because you've been on the list when | write those promos, | don't write
like, hey, last chance. And it's not a three line thing. It's like | write it so that there’s enough meat in it. So you have a
hard time telling it's not a newsletter until you're sucked in. And number two, that there’s enough meat in it that even
if you're not interested in the event, you don't feel like | just stole three or four minutes of your life and added no
value. So that's really, really important. But some of the copywriters we've hired along the way either fell into the
journalistic camp and their writing was so boring, nobody would buy anything, or they fell into the hard sales camp
where there was no value. And they betrayed the trust that we had worked so carefully to establish. So that goes out
on a Thursday, Fridays, | left open. And we have, you know, obviously four Fridays per month. So on a Friday, we do
one Friday, a month, we do the special reports, blast, which features a special report. And just lets everybody know,
hey, we have a special reports library because that supports our sponsors, we have a whole revenue model based
around supporting our sponsors, you know, as a radio show, and so we do that once a month. But it also adds a lot
of value. And it gives somebody the idea that hey, | can download something because the weekend is coming, | can
catch up. | can read this because it’s interesting to me, I'm going to have time because it's a weekend. And by the
time they finish that then the podcast comes back around, right? Because now it’s on Sunday. So he start the
weekend with a podcast and the cycle repeats. Then one Friday a month we do the master event update where we
feature an event but we make we send out a whole list of all the events we have available, both ours and third party
events, just the whole thing just to remind people and part of that is also to drive traffic to the website. To get people
to go visit the website either download a special report or two Look at an event. And of course, our website has
needed facelift for some time that is in process. And hopefully we'll be done here shortly. Looking forward to getting
the update on that soon, Stace. Okay, so that that's kind of a rhythm. And then, you know, the other thing is you take
advantage of what's going on in the world, you know, so a fourth of July theme, a Thanksgiving theme, a Christmas
theme, you know, whatever is going on. And of course, we pivot off of the news. And when things come up, like right
now, we decided to do this crisis investing webinar, because we felt like it was a great opportunity to leverage what
we had to work with, which is a unique perspective. And our value proposition to the world is, hey, mainstream
financial media doesn't understand you doesn't understand mainstream real estate investors, they don't talk to you,
they don't speak for you. They barely acknowledge you exist. They're mostly beholden to Wall Street. So we're going
to go bring you ideas and voices and perspectives you can't get elsewhere. And we're going to do it at the same
level, we're going to go get big name people, we're going to bring in serious financial perspectives, macro
perspective, with specific recommendations about markets and product types and things you can do, and
introductions to how you can do it just like, you know, the financial side. So you know, there is a strategy, as you can
see, in everything that we do, everything is thought out, everything is intentional. Everything is based on a process,
you know, CCN | did that one video where we said everything's a process. And the quicker you realize, you know, we
started off the top of the call going through CEP situation, and | took him through the sales process. And you know,
when Jake asked his question, we went through what our social media content production process is. Now you're
asking me about the rhythm? And how do we establish the rhythm? Well, we kind of thought through the psychology
of who we were talking to what what it was, we had to say what we were trying to accomplish. And being very
JO

Jo

cognizant of people's orientation, whether they're happy, whether they're sad, whether they’re forward focused,
whether they're disturbed, whether they're optimistic, whether they're pessimistic, and then taking their their natural
orientation, and then building upon it, rather than trying to interrupt them. | call it Aikido marketing. someday I'm
going to write a book about Aikido marketing, and Aikido is a martial art you may be familiar with, where instead of
confronting force with force or interrupting somebody's motion with yours, instead of blocking someone's aggression,
you use their aggression, and their momentum in your favor, you pull them through you, you move them, you know,
aside so they can continue in the direction they're going, you expend a lot less energy. And it’s the same thing. So |
think that a lot of traditional marketing is about interrupting people’s patterns, interrupting people's interests, and
just capturing their attention. And I, | hate that | think swipe people hate pop ups. It’s why people hate ads. First
thing | did, when we got the radio shows, we pulled all the sponsors out that were irrelevant. And we focused on
building a sponsor ship, network of people that actually provide a product or service and were highly relevant to our
audience, we had to monetize. But at least, we didn't want to interrupt we wanted to use their natural interest to pull
them through. And then we added to that the special reports, which is basically lead gen, but it’s done so well, that
people, you know, thank us for the value and how much work we put in. Not even really aware that it’s monetizing for
us because it doesn’t even matter. It there’s so much value. So big answer. But that's that's kind of the thought
process behind everything we do and how it works, you just have to take and apply some of those same principles, to
who you're talking to what you're trying to accomplish, and think about, where they're at how you want them to feel,
and then how you can use where they're already oriented, to, to pull them through and move them along a process
of interest, from development of interest and curiosity into intellectual stimulation and engagement. That's kind of
the development you take somebody through in their mind. Does that make sense?

44:24

It does make sense very useful. And | love the analogy of being able to think about the pattern that they're already
in. And then you talked about the Thursday after the hump day and really starting to before focus. That's right, that's
the time to catch the person in their in their motion, and in your system. And so it's about making sure that that
process is adapted.

Russ 44:47

Yeah, and of course, | don't have any empirical evidence saying that it works. It's just it’s just, you know, my gut just
tells me and so that's what we've been doing and we've produced decent results with it up to this point, as we get
more data driven and we get more tools and more analytics. And, you know, we may tweak some things. But there's
also going to be times where | say | don't care, I'm going to still just trust my gut. But obviously, if the evidence is
refuting my instincts, and I'm going to have to listen to that, you know, so it’s an art not a science, | think.

45:20

Perfect. Well, thank you very much. That's very helpful roster. Sure.

Russ 45:23

Sure. Luis all the way from Panama. You got any questions for me, buddy?

45:31
CC - May 27, 2020 - Q&A Call on Sales and
Marketing with Rus...

®@ Mon, 9/27 8:30PM © 1:02:30

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, investors, conversation, marketing, sales, question, podcast, world, talking, deal, stacy, content, investing, event,

thought, concern, move, engagement, california, rhythm

SPEAKERS

Russ, Staci Gray

) Russ 00:16

JO

JO

All right syndication mentary Club This is Russ and we are here with our inaugural sales and marketing kind of
coaching call, | just feel like with so much going on in the world right now with the whole COVID-19 thing and, you
know, sheltering in place and not being able to go out and network in the normal ways plus, just the most important
skill set you have in this business is sales, it's important to, to determine how to communicate better get out there
and, and go from finding people to talk to to be able to really talk with them and get the thing done. And of course,
you know, we do How to Win funds and influence people. And that's all about what's happening in the classroom,
you guys i hope are out in the real world, and trying to solve real world problems. And so what I'd like to do use these
sessions for is to take on those real world problems, maybe do a little roleplay try to figure out how to solve those
problems and get you from wherever it is you're stuck to moving forward. So | kind of like to keep the tempo up. So
I'm not planning on monologuing you guys have all heard me blab on and on and on and on. | really want to pivot
off of what you guys have going on out there. So Stacy, you said that CEP submitted a question CEP? Do you
remember what the question is? Do you want to just just hand it off to me now and we'll go from there.

01:50

Remember one of the questions. The second one, I'll go with the first one. And then the second one, | have to have to

go out from memory. | didn’t write it down. | think | just sent it over to Yolanda Stacy

Russ 02:03

just sent it to me. Most markets today are experiencing very level varying levels of job losses due to COVID-19. How
would you communicate the long term recovery and resiliency of a market to an investor? If the market is currently
experiencing a rough headwind? would you compare pro business markets to anti business? Mark mints? markets as

a reference? Or would you recommend avoiding that? Is that your question? Yeah,

02:28
Russ 59:40

Yeah, | mean, we, | always used to take notes, Tom Hopkins taught me you go in and you ask permission, and you let
them know that I'm going to be listening very carefully to what you say. But to make sure | don't miss anything with
your permission. I'd like to take a few notes. And it's kind of the same principle. I'm going to be listening to you very
carefully, fully engaged. Rather than sitting here trying to, you know, write notes and half Listen, and everybody can
relate to that, because everybody’s done it. With your permission, I'd like to simply record it for my own private use.
Nobody else will hear it, just to make sure that that | that | really hear, you know what you have to say, because it's
important to me, and how you choose to say it. If people say fine, no problem, I'll just take some notes you don't
mind. And of course, later, when you're repeating back to them, the things you've heard, and they recognize people
really appreciate a great listener, when they know they've been heard. People, people want to be heard. And very
few people do a good job of either hearing them or demonstrating to them that they've heard them, just because
you hear them, if you don't demonstrate to them that you've heard them, it’s almost as though you didn't. Okay, so |
think this is where about an hour, right stays. Okay. So I'm going to call that a wrap. Unless you guys have anything
burning, | can help you with. But this, you know, we'll call this our inaugural edition of this. And if you like it, and we're
going to put this out there for the rest of the group, if they like it, then I'm willing to do this on a fairly regular
heartbeat. Because you know, the marketplace is dynamic, what you're dealing with on a daily basis in your
marketing and sales, communications is dynamic. Our commitment, Robert and I, from the very beginning has been
to make this program as real world as possible. And the good news is, this is fairly easy for me, | don't have to
prepare anything, you guys bring me the content, | just pivot off whatever you bring. So as long as as long as you're
showing up, I'll let Stacy and Yolanda work out, you know when and how we're going to do it. But | appreciate you
being here. | appreciate you coming prepared. | appreciate the great questions, the great engagement. And | really
appreciate Billy keels all the way from Spain and Luis were to all the way from Panama, finding time to be on the
call. So appreciate all of you a lot. And thank you for your time. So with that, we're going to wrap it up and we'll see
you next time. Thanks. Thank you
JO

JO

training. Very simple. The good news is it's all in the platform, you can go watch those tapes over and over and over
again. And as soon as this thing passes and we're able to do another live event, we will retake it and do a much
better job than the one that's in there but because you've been through it, it should be good enough and one of the
things that you can be doing everybody can be doing and | think should be doing and | recommended this from the
very very beginning is to take those tapes and get it get a drill for skills mastermind going because if you take and
watch the tapes and then do the do the exercises just like you were in the room then it’s not quite as good as being
there but if you do it with other people you get to practice and the thing is if you bring real life situations to the
discussion now you're practicing real life stuff and if you do it with a group of people that are that are either on your
team you're gonna make your team better sales people or and you do it with your leads group people that you're
working with it or you know, your your, your marketing allies, like Robert and |, when we first started that's what we
were we were allies. He had a broken his dad had a brokerage business, | had a mortgage company, we weren't
partners, we were just two guys who knew each other who decided that we could lock arms and do some
cooperative marketing and that whole thing you know, of course, turned into what it turned into. But it all started just
with just us getting together and teaching together because it generated leads this case It's like, hey, let's get
together and drill for skills, practice our sales skills together. Well, we're sheltering in place. Maybe | don't want to go
get into a roomful of 1000 people and stand in a booth and talk to 100 strangers, but maybe | feel comfortable
having five close friends get together in a coffee shop or come over to my house and sit down and do this drill for
skills. Okay. Awesome. Thank you. So Oh, Billy keels is here, all the way from Spain. states are you able to see the
participant list? Now | can. Okay, I'm gonna make you a co host. So you can admit people so if I'm yakking away as |
was Billy heels all the way from Spain. Are you there? Do you have a microphone? Billy? In your handsome picture?
Okay. Oh, and you have an associated the office with you. Okay. All righty. Hello. Hello. Hey, man. How's the podcast
going?

21:12

It's coming along. It’s coming along. We are out. We're moving along well, and nerves, lots of nerves, lots of nerves.
But looking forward to it. You have?

Russ 21:21

Yeah, yeah. Good for you. Okay, well, we just did a big long thing on a question that set pad but this is our sales and
marketing, kind of just real life coaching call. | just feel like with everything going on right now. In the world, there's
going to be more objections than usual. A lot of times you got to be fast on your feet. And that's hard to do if you
really aren't skilled at just really understanding the patterns and principles of how to deal with engagement deal with
question so Billy, | know you were a little bit late. And | don’t fault you because it's | don't know what time of day it is
or night it is where you are. | appreciate you being here. But you probably want to go back and listen to the first
section of this it'll when it hits the platform, because | think there was some good stuff in there. Anyway, so Okay, so
step I'm gonna put you on pause for a minute. Jake, you got anything from the real world? You? Yeah, | can | can
coach you up on?

22:16

Yeah, I've got a I've got a question for you. So | guess my question is more of a build your brand and a marketing
question. So | see a lot of syndicators take more of the like thought platform, thought leadership platform approach
to building their brand. So they'll have a maybe a personal website, a podcast, they'll be active on all the social
medias. So I’m guessing I’m wondering what you think are some of the biggest mistakes that you see people make,
when they do take that thought leadership platform approach?
Um, actually, my question was same as seps question was quite similar to this array after it.

© Russ 45:39

Okay. All right. Well, great. Okay, so anybody else up? Come back around to you? Your mics, not on? Can you hear

me now? | can hear you now.

A 45:57

Sorry about that. So the second part of that question was, what would you say, is focusing more just on the
California investors and it could be existing investors, it could be new investors, but those who are, you know, the
appreciation Kool Aid, finally, there’s a market recession, there's a market crash, prices might come down, and they
want to just invest locally. The feedback net it gives me is that | come off a little bit, too anti California and those
conversations, | don't know if that's, if | got to just work on that or just tone to tone it down. But how would you
communicate that maybe, you know, like, what, what happened the last 10 years is not necessarily gonna be the next
10 years, investors considering just investing over here?

© Russ 46:43

Well, | mean, | think you don't know that. And they don't know that. Right? Nobody knows what the next 10 years are
going to be. So you know, it's hard to bet against California and appreciation because it has a long, long, long
history of it. There's a lot of reasons people like California, you know, hard for me to relate to, | mean, obviously, | was
born and raised there. And | have a certain degree of affection, but they ruined it. | remember when it was great. And
and now they've ruined it. But, you know, people, my high school girlfriend before my wife, moved, moved to
California from New Jersey, and her parents came out, you know, to California from New Jersey, and thought they
died and gone to heaven. So it's always compared to what right? You know, we we look at what's going on, you
know, in America, and we think, Oh, my gosh, you know, America is in trouble. And you look right, it's going around in
the world and people like | can't wait to get to America, because the rest of the world is such a mess. Right? There's
people that despise the US dollar, yet most people around the world are piling into it for safety. So there's always two
sides to the perspective in sales, the principle is the incumbent was the buyers choice. Okay, think about that. So if
I'm out there competing for a relationship, a financial planner, or a CPA or whatever, right? And | am putting that
person down, who hired them. The customer, the investor did, so I'm kind of through the transitive property of
stupidity, calling them stupid, hey, if if this person is stupid, the person who hired the must be stupid. And you know,
it's an insult. So you have to be careful. And | overplay my hand, sometimes, you know. So just because you hear
stuff, like in a seminar, when you're in a bunch of friendlies, and things that you would say, and then you get out in
the real world, you got to tone it down, because people aren't ready for it, like conversations | have when I'm with
Kiyosaki, and Ed Griffin, very different than conversations | have when I'm at a cocktail party with a bunch of people
that | just met, right? | mean, you just have to understand that not everybody sees the world the way you see it. So it’s
less important what you have to say, then what you have to ask. And once you find out what, where they're at, then
you then you pivot off, if they express a concern, then you can pour a little gas on the fire, and see if it'll Ignite. And
then you write it, or you know, you fanned the flames. If you do and they don't bite, then you know that dog don't
hunt. And you got to wait. So the concept in sales, is understanding that when you get what you have to dig for a
why. And when you think you've got to why you have to test it to see how compelling it is. If you can't get away with
emotion, it’s not that compelling. And in order to get someone to move, you're going to have to compel them, they're
going to have to have an inner drive a compelling why or a collection of compelling why’'s. And of course as we train
you need to have at least three so that you can just pile it on. So it is just a no brainer. It's so obvious The move
makes sense when you finally present it. But it’s got to be both intellectual and more importantly, it’s got to be

emotional. Because if that heart doesn't place your order to the brain doesn't work, brains not interested in your
extracting quotes, video, headliners and merging across platforms because Twitter is different than Instagram and
Facebook is different than LinkedIn. And you know, really identifying what platforms are it's going to have your
target audience on it. And then the things that we post for the real estate guys are on brand for the real estate guys.
And the things we post for Russ are on brand for Russ. So the real estate guys interview thought leaders, the real
estate guys speak more about real estate investing asset investing economics, Russ, Russ, his voice on the newsletter,
| mean on the real estate guys is more clues in the news, um, how gold impacts real estate, how bonds impact real
estate, he’s more like a financial strategist. So what we do on his page is more on brand for what his voices. So if
you're going to be doing it yourself, it's going to be a lot easier because you can stay on on brand. But we have a
voice and style guide that we go by. And it’s like 10 pages long. So everybody who has sat in that seat knows exactly
what we do what we will say what we won't say like we don't say | want you we add with value, we always promote
what's in the audience's best interest. So there's a lot of detail that we go into on the backend in terms of processes
and systems so that whoever sits in that seat can really own the voice of whatever brand it is that we're marketing.
And it's not just for the real estate guys, | do this with all the other clients that | have as well. So having a voice and
style guide is really key.

© Russ 28:58

And you have to pay attention to your own stuff. Because when | look at the teams putting out from time to time |
look at it and go, that doesn't sound like me. And | give them that feedback because they need it. It’s like little
bumper rails to keep them you know, in the lane. And only | can say, you know, how | want to be represented but |
don't have the time or the skills to be candid to be able to pump out you know that much content by myself. And you
know, we have aspirations to do a lot more. And there’s some other things we're going to be doing to like we're going
to be we're building out our YouTube channel, I'm going to be doing a lot of YouTube interviews, because | can do
those without Robert Roberts. Time is very hard to come by. And so you know, we do the show together, we do the
events together and he spends a lot of time on our project and beliefs and things that we do outside. So, you know,
we're looking at YouTube as a way for, for me to be able to carry a little bit more of the burden and you Yet not usurp
Roberts role as the host of the show, and stay very much within my skill set, which is not, you know, I'm not a world
class interviewer | do, okay. But it's really kind of getting a little bit more into the weeds and of some of the markets
and some of the strategies and dealing with our providers and talking about how, how to go from education to
action, you know, kind of that real practical transition step. So we'll see. And then from that, you know, that
additional content that I'll be doing, it’s a lot easier for me to be able to just, you know, turn, | got my studio now set
up, | just, like three minutes before this came on, we started you know, | just unplugged my computer from my desk,
walked over here, plugged it in here, hit the lights, and I'm good to go, | didn't have to figure my camera, | didn't have
to calibrate my lights, | didn't have to set my stage, | didn't really have to do anything, but just sit down and go. So |
think, you know, you want to be efficient and time like that. But | can sit down and bang out these conversations
really quickly. Get them recorded, get them transcribed, turn them over to a content curator who's going to pull stuff
out of it, write a report out of it, write a social post out of it, and use all those techniques that Stacy's you know,
training her team on and obviously modeling after people that are prolific, take that little bit of content, | create and
get a lot of mileage out of it, you know, my thing in life in everything | do is to minimize how much non leverageable
repetition | have to do. And if | have to do something, | want it to be repetitively | want it to be super scalable. Like it
takes me the same amount of time to do this conversation, if | was just doing it, for the four of you, or five of you,
whatever it is four of you, it would be good. But it would be like a wisp of vapor. But because we're recording it, and
we have a platform to put it on to now I'm creating an artifact. And | can teach it wants to live. And yet | can teach
hundreds or 1000s of people over time because it's leverageable. Same with the podcast, same with a newsletter.

Same with almost everything that | personally get involved in.

&) Staci Gray 32:20

And | wake back up one second because | we talked about distribution of content, but | don’t know your question
JO

JO

speculate more and more stages in California. So I'm trying to figure out how to communicate once I've gotten that
feedback from those investors, how to communicate the benefits of, hey, let's keep doing what we're doing. Let's
keep doing what works, versus investing in California.

Russ 06:35

Okay, Luis is here making me I'm getting nauseous here. I'm gonna turn your video off, do you turn it on when you're
ready to show yourself okay, let's see. There you go. All right. Okay, so then | again, I'm going to come back SAP and
| don't mean to be camping out on this, but | hope we're making an important distinction. So now, what I'm hearing
you say is we've got a subset of people who have been active customers, they're not prospects, other than, you know,
their prospects for the next deal. So they've gone into a deal, they come out of the deal, and now they're in cash. And
are you talking to them individually? Or are you talking to them as a group of people who are have just come out of

a deal?

07:24

individually up to now and | want to talk to them as collectively afterwards?

Russ 07:29

Okay, so the quote, your question is, how to communicate to them effectively, collectively, or in a follow up

conversation?

07:38

First part would be how to communicate? Well, | was gonna say, individually, if it's more efficient, collectively, | can
do that.

Russ 07:48

Well, | mean, having individual conversations is always the most effective. Whether it's the most efficient, that's that's
different, right? Because, you know, again, the whole purpose of mass communication in this business, is to get
somebody into a conversation, because very few people, | mean, you know, maybe people that have done business
with you before, they're going to send you money, because you sent them an email with a link to a forum. Most
people are going to need a conversation. So everything you do in marketing in syndication, or the vast majority of
things you do in marketing and syndication is designed to get you into a one on one conversation. And when you're
in a one on one conversation, Everything you say is in the context of that individual, their needs, wants desires, goals
and objectives, which you either have understood. And then of course, in the conversation, you need to express your
understanding, validate your understanding. And when you bring to their awareness, your awareness you bring to
their awareness, also their own needs, wants desires, goals and objectives, things you may have picked up in
conversation or remember that they forgotten. And then you bring it back up to the focus and it becomes a common
ground that you build out the entire presentation of your features and benefits on. Does that make sense? Yeah,
okay. And so, your your, if you know what their concerns are, you know, then how do we deal with concerns in sales?
When you're having an individual conversation? You agree right away step. That's a great point. | know exactly how
you feel. | mean, there's a lot of people out now that are concerned about what's happening in the marketplace. But
