offering complimentary products and services to yours, where you can pool your marketing dollars to create
audiences online or in the real world. And then all study sales training together and watch the tapes and do the
exercises and make it a mastermind drill for skills. Because at some point, | mean, | wasn't born like this, right? You
guys can toss pretty much whatever at me. And I'm just going to filter it through my paradigms and go through my
patterns and principles. And | can figure out most of the time, how to handle the situation very, very quickly. And it
isn't because I'm brilliant. It's because I'm well trained and well practiced. And you can become that too. And the
course was put together online for you to have the ability to use it, not only to learn from, but to develop people on
your team and in your network. And if you do it right, it actually ought to make you money fairly quickly. So it's not a
bad use of time. Anytime you spend time with people in your network drilling for skills, you're probably going to end
up finding a shorter path to deals and referrals and all kinds of, you know, shared resources that are going to be a
value to you. Okay, that was a great question. Appreciate it. All right. Anybody else? So got a little bit of time left in
my hourglass.

30:34

JO

| had a quick side idea for Tony, also on that, because | think what you said Russell's gold, and just the fact that

© Russ 30:41

if you've got a gold is getting more valuable, he’s Yeah, you haven't noticed?

30:45

JO

Yeah. And if you've got access to five attorneys, and yeah, maybe they're a little stingy on the front side. But if they
can create a legal syndication, you're saving yourself some income are right, there are some costs right there in
terms of having to go find a syndication attorney. And But beyond that, being able to step in passive, you know, if the
deal is, you know, with everything that's going on, you're reducing your risk. And you know, if you could if you bring
another deal or something to them, eventually you can say, you know, you'd like what Russell's talking about, you
develop that relationships, you can say, Hey, guys, so obviously now hopefully, we've established a relationship here,
if | continue to do this, you're going to let me come in as a freight, you know, key principle at some point, but | would
think that'd be an awesome way to enter into what could be a really great relationship with sounds like five money,
guys.

© Russ 31:35

| think that's brilliant, great advice. You know that it's fantastic. Because ultimately, you're looking past the deal past
the money, and you're looking into their personal network, you're looking into all the value they bring. And that's
another key principle from the course is whenever you are in any relationship, whatever transaction is on the table,
the relationship and the influence, especially when you're dealing with influencers, people that are have a prestigious
position in the community, or have a valuable social network over which they have influence. When you can
influence influencers that opens doors and builds your brand and builds your network. | talked about that, both in the
syndication training, and also on how to win funds and influence people. And so that's great. And just like when
Robert first started in his career as a developer, he started as a passive investor with no say, so he just raised a little
bit of money, but he got into the relationship. And because he's a great relationship guy, he eventually learned and
they invited him to become the developer on a project that they would run. And that's how Robert got into
development. So Randy, that's a great point. Thank you for bringing it up. What else? Okay, don't be shy, no dead air,
you know, inner circle members, you know who | am. But dead air. Reuben.
approach people, because some people will ignore certain ways and other people, like | love phone calls. | mean, |
love | hate the just always texting and that kind of stuff. And | have to get over it. Because that's today’s age.
However, you know, a combination of all of that | think works really well.

Russ 46:31

Yeah, | mean, you have a lot of tools, | was having this discussion with my father, who's in town for Father's Day, and
we're waiting any moment now for Stephanie to have her baby, he was hoping to be here for that to happen. But the
we were talking about how marketing has changed. And we were having a, you know, a little bit of a friendly debate,
which we do from time to time, because he came to the conclusion that marketing is so much more complicated
today. And there's, you know, it's changed so much. And | took the opposite approach. | said, Well, marketing hasn't
changed at all, the principles of marketing haven't changed one iota, I'd look at life in terms of principles. And, you
know, | mean, | understood what he was saying is there's a lot more tools, some of the tools are sophisticated, you
have to be a little bit more technical, Li savvy, and able to deal with all of that. But really, it's never been easier,
because there's all kinds of people who can help you with all the technical aspects of it, you have more tools
available than ever. And if you cut through all of that, overwhelm and intimidation and just stick to the core
principles, the principles are the same. You know, in general terms, you want to take somebody through a process of
first contact or first impression, the first time they see you hear about you. And then that first follow up, what is going
to be the first communication as you're beginning to fill in the blanks of their understanding and paint a picture of
who you are, at some point based on their behavior. And ultimately, when you get into an individual conversation,
and when they become a customer, and you can actually profile them, then you can find out what they specifically
like and don't like how they want to be talked to what they want to hear about what they don't want to be talked
about how they don't want to be spoken to, or communicated with and ultimately your communication will become
fairly customized, fairly personalized. Obviously the only people that are going to hear the details on the
performance of an actual deal is going to be the handful of people that are in that specific deal. And when you get
into the weeds of those 30 people let's say on a deal like that 10 of them may want phone calls 10 of them may want
emails 10 of them may want hardcopy mail or maybe five of them want hardcopy mail five never want to hear from
you unless you have a check. And they're all right whatever it is they want and so it's going to end up becoming very
personalized, you know, the closer you get to the relationship but again this you may be doing a degree of mass
marketing trying to distill and you may scoop up a lot of dirt and throw it in your your pan, but ultimately is your kind
of panning for gold if you will, you're only going to end up with a few nuggets of gold a few people that you really
want to stay close with and really nurture and pay attention to you don't need that many investors to have a viable
syndication business and once you have that if you treat them right, a lot of them will actually help you grow
organically just by bringing their own network in and recycling their growing wealth back into your funnel. So you
There's a lot of stuff out there, created by marketing gurus that is really intended for people that are selling products
on Amazon and trying to make a nickel here and a dime there and $1 that this is not that business. And so be very
careful before you get sucked into believing that that's how that stuff works or they'll be teaching you techniques
about, you know, like, | mean, | did Robert and | did a whole sales funnel by Russell Brunson. Russell Brunson created
Click Funnels. He's a brilliant, brilliant guy. And what he does works well just doesn't work well, for Robert and me,
because it's a it's not congruent with who we are. And B, we sell high ticket items, based on relationships. So if the
relationship is most important, I'm not going to use any manipulative technique on you. The techniques | teach aren't
manipulative. mean, they're just enhanced communication, manipulating somebody is a very different, different
thing. So anyway, | could go off on that, but | want my point is Jana is that I'm agreeing with you that you're doing
the right thing. There are a lot of tools, there are a lot of options. Ultimately, you have to profile and get to know
every single person in your database in the beginning, you know, you have them clumped together, but your ultimate
destination is personalized communication. And then using the 8020 rule, you're really going to want to be attentive
to the 20% of the investors that represent 80% of your investment. And then you're going to give them the VIP
treatment because a mernda
JO

51:36

Yeah, | think they're clarify on Janice situation, that's really that kind of stuff you're we're putting out there is going
out to providers, so we're not really marketing to investors, that way, it's more to finding these people who provide
these services. So we can then you know, bring them into the market, to provide the housing or to provide the service
for someone who has, you know, the house

Russ 51:59

or the Yeah, but ultimately, though, Randy, every every customer is a human being. And the more personally you can
make it, the better the goal of marketing is to get to sales. And the goal of sales is to make it personal. So you can
automate a lot, and you should, but and you can't have personal relationships with everybody if you want a big
business. But until you have a big business, you do want to develop a lot of relationships, personal relationships with
people, if for no other reason, just then for the practice. And then down the road, you'll reserve yourself, for the
people who are worthy of your time and attention. You know, in the beginning, | talked to every provider, every
prospect, you know, | did every sales call, | dealt with every vendor today, it's not that way, today, they've got to go
through layers to get to me. And I, you know, there's a handful of people in the inner circle and other people that
have direct access, but most people don't. So you know, and then you have to decide how they're going to get there.
It is automated until it's a one on one call. So the automation is up until the one on one call. And then once you have
the one on one call, it's more personalized, right. But then once you've identified the personalization, you're going to
have clumps of people that want the same treatment, and then it becomes mass to that group, whatever group that
is, right, and that's another set of automation as well. Uh huh. So all just one on one. But the point is, you don't have
it all figured out. At the beginning, you don't have to have all the structure in place to solve problems you haven't
come to yet, you just have to be aware of where you're going. And the process you're going to have to go along the
way, in a lot of your education, which is kind of what | was trying to stress in the last little segment is that you learn
by doing you learn by engaging people individually and talking with people and you may not, you don't have to
worry, | can't do it that way, because | don't have time to talk to everybody. No, you don't. But you have time to talk
to this group of people now. And that's good enough. later on down the road, maybe out of the 20 people you're
talking to you'll only still be talking to one of them because the other 19 won't qualify to talk to you anymore. You'll
assign them to one of your top Investor Relations, Pete ships people or you will have developed enough of an
understanding that you can totally personally meet their needs through automation. You know, you might create a
video for eight people that want a video update, you know, well that's better than eight individual phone calls and
they're all happy they got a chance to see your face and hear your voice. You just leave their name out of it. You
know, Hey, | just wanted to get you a message and let you know what's going on with investment. I'm sure you're
wondering about this or you're wondering about that. Here's the grid never said the name. But it sounds personal.
And the eight people who got it feel like you're talking just too So there's a lot of things you can do down the road.
But again, don't get hung up on trying to think you have to have it all figured out, or it has to be. It has to be scalable
day one it doesn't. But you're going to be learning how to scale. When cc takes somebody through the scaling
process. A lot of it is unpacking what you've learned during all of the inefficient process, if you aren't willing to go
through the inefficient process you give her less to work with when she’s scaling you. And all you're going to do is
scale things that don't work in the real world because you haven't tested them. Okay, enough on that, anything else?
Okay, then I'm gonna call that a wrap. | really appreciate everybody's participation. And for those of you that are
watching after the fact or if you are on this now and all sudden you get off the line, like | wish | would have asked
that, then just send it to membership. And the next time we scheduled one of these will have those questions. When
we get enough questions, we'll do it. And | don't know Stacy, they don't tell me how they decide how often we're
going to do these. So | just show up when assigned. But happy to be here really enjoyed. It's always fun love talking
about sales and marketing all the time. Keep keep going out in the real world and testing the techniques and
perfecting getting real world feedback. Bring in your questions, your problems, your challenges to the forum. Started
on the forum use ask the mentors, we get into faster mentors questions, we'll throw down one of these Q and A's, and
we'll keep building out the library. Meanwhile, go watch how to win funds and influence people. Create your
JO

Jo

JO

definitely know yours Israel. Yeah, there you go. And it's and it's well stocked with quality merchandise. Good for you.
Yeah, so anyway, the point the reason | use CGI is because because when you walk into a relationship or a
conversation with somebody, you're playing on a green screen | used to call it in the old days when | would walk in
with nothing but my yellow pad going in naked. All the salespeople | worked with all wanted to go in with their flip
chart their binder because we that's how we presented we had a slide deck, but it wasn't on PowerPoint, it was in a
literal ring binder. And we would get in there and we would show and tell and | got trained that that was the sign of a
weak salesman that great salesman went in naked with nothing but a notepad and your wits. And then | realized
that you to get into the mind's eye the imagination of the prospect you needed to ask a great questions and engage
them both the intellectual and emotional level. And then you had to create hypothetical situations to test their
interest. So hypotheticals or if then, so that transitional if then statement, you know, Randy, if | can show you a way
to make all your dreams come true, and you can afford to do it, then is there any reason you wouldn't want to do it?
That's a hypothetical. | didn't say | could do it. But I'm saying if | could, would you Well, | share it Randy | understand
that you're concerned right now about the price but let's assume for a moment that price was no object. If price was
no object is there any other reason you can think of you wouldn't want to move forward. Now | haven't lowered the
price. | may not even explain to the price I'm just hypothetically creating reality where it doesn't matter to see if
there's something else so hypotheticals are your ability to create whatever picture whatever backdrop whatever
context for the conversation you'd like in order to clarify an understanding or test a commitment and so getting
really good at it and doing it so it isn't so blatantly painfully obvious the way | do it when | role model for you. That's
the art of it is working it into the language so you take them there but they don’t know that you've done it | mean
great CGI is so good that you can't tell the actor is interacting you know with a puppet or a stand in and that that
person is invisible to you because they're all dressed in whatever the backdrop is and then the technicians are going
to put the dinosaur the monster or whatever the spaceship in the backdrop later Okay, maybe way too much of an
explanation but there you go. Great. All right, what else? What else who else and don't feel obligated to use the
whole hourglass? I'm happy to stay here for the full time that's the budgeted time but if this is all we got, this is all we
got. Anybody else? Not out there getting your teeth kicked in? Are you out there? Are you talking to people? Are you
sending out emails? Are you getting feedback? Are you posting on social media? Are you getting engagement? Are

you out there so | got a Yeah,

18:53

| got a situation maybe you can help me with

Russ 18:56

this must be somebody on the phone because | don't see a face.

19:02

on the telephone.

Russ 19:03
Okay, that's okay. Gotcha. Yes, your name.

19:08
21:54

JO

| didn’t have it under | don't have it under contract, | have an offer pending.

© Russ 21:59

Okay, so you've submitted an offer. Okay, good. So you don't quite have it under control. But you're, you're you're
pretty far down. Okay. And the concern is that these guys could come in and, and undercut, you know,

2PN5

JO

that's not even the concern is the concern is that as | present them the deal and said, | wanted to do a syndication.
There's like a team of five attorneys, they just want to take over the deal. They said, you know, initially they're like,
Well, yeah, we're interested in the deal. Looks like a really good deal. Do you want a finder's fee? I'm like, | presented
the deal to as a syndication deal. And they want to take over the deal where they say that they can create their own
syndication. But they don't like want to be subordinate to me in a syndication arrangement.

© Russ 22:45

Okay. Well, | mean, you know, it could just be, it could be that it's not a match. | mean, sometimes that just happens. |
mean, you know, it's, it’s less of a sales thing, sales isn't making somebody do what you want them to do. Sales is
being really good at finding matches. So when someone is objecting to a deal as offered, the technique is to
understand. And so, you know, you don't want to be adversarial. And these guys are sharp. | mean, they're lawyers,
they're used to negotiating. So you need to, you know, you need to be sharp, but there's still human beings. And so
basic techniques still works. And so, you know, when someone gives you an objection, the first thing you want to do is
acknowledge it. It's like, it's like, well, | mean, | can certainly understand why you would want to run the deal. It’s the
same reason | want to run the deal. The same reason | made an offer on the, on the on the property, and I'm pretty
far down the path. So let me ask you this. Mr. group of attorneys. You know, it, what are the what are the reasons
that you would like to be, you know, in the deal, and not have me in the deal? Or? Or what are some of the reasons
why you would prefer to take over the deal, rather than just come in, as, as part of my deal, since I'm the one that
brought the deal in and putting it together, and then see what they say. They may think that you're incompetent,
they may not like you, they may decide that they can get you out, you're going to take much of it. Was that?

24:25

JO

That may indeed be the case.

© Russ 24:27

Yeah, | mean, but you don't know. And, you know, we're not, we're not ever trying to protect our ego. We're trying to
get to the truth. And the truth is going to be what the truth is, and just because they think nothing of you, good or
bad, doesn't make it true. In order for you to understand them. You're going to need to sorry, | just noticed the chat
and | was checking it, you're going to need to make sure you you understand exactly what they want and why and
what they're concerned about, and how they See. So that’s just all part of the sales process. A sales conversation is
JO

JO

JO

Hey, | have there's a lot of people out there who don't understand, you know, the inverse relationship between bond
markets and bond yield. So they don't understand counterparty risk and say, Hey, you know what, | wrote a white
paper on counterparty risk. And rather than have me take up a bunch of time, why don't you take a look at it? And
then next time we talk, | can answer any questions you have. But | just would like to have you consider when you look
around the world, and it’s your portfolio, most people do not really understand or are adequately protected against
counterparty risk. And that's a real concern for a lot of investors right now. Right now, you've totally added value, you
haven't tried to sell them anything, you've educated them in preparation for a sale somewhere down the road,
because presumably, most of your offerings are going to have certain components in it that are going to be
universal, but you apply those things on an individual basis. Okay. The third thing to be to take into consideration is
compliance. Remember, Mauricio talks about conditioning the audience. So if you're going to be sending out a lot of
past deals, the implication is the next deal will be like the past. And you're conditioning them. So | can't answer that.
That's a legal question. | think, Stace, we might have covered that on the last q&a with Mauricio. So you might take
you know, if you weren't on that call, go back into the archives on the platform and take a look at it was the last
legal q&a that we did. You know, hopefully, it's keyword tagged. And you can figure out if we talked about
conditioning the marketplace, but if not, then just, you know, either look for information on that or give them recio a
call or however you want to research it, but just understand what the concept of conditioning is. And take that into

consideration. If you're going to be sending people a list or a past deal with them.

14:38

As far as | know, if you're having a one on one conversation with them and you send them any past deal or whatever.
It's totally, it's fine, but I'll double check with them before | before | haven't done it yet. So all

Russ 14:53
but those are the three considerations. Okay. Right, Right on. Thank

14:58
you. All right. Thank

Russ 14:58

you. Anybody else comments about any of that questions about any of that or something brand new?

15:04

| have a quick quick question on that. Okay. What does CGI stand for? | can't remember

Russ 15:10

computer generated imaging it's it's how they create the Avengers and Star Wars and all the artificial environments
that these actors are on you know when you see somebody who's got a beautiful bookcase in their backdrop but
when they move their hand they disappear then it's it's an artificial backdrop now | know yours is real. But yeah, |
JO

this. And this in this which you said is important to you. Because why? Why? Why? Is there any reason you can think
of that you wouldn't want to take a closer look, or you wouldn't want me to make the introduction or we shouldn't
get back together again. And you ask that | always ask it in a negative so that the response when they respond
negatively, a double negative is a positive? And they say no, | mean, it'd be great if you could give me | mean, yeah,
I'd love to. Fantastic. So now you've completely set the table to go and engage the mind. Alright, so that's sales
training one on one in a one minute recap maybe two. So with all that said, when you go out in the real world,
whatever you're doing, both in terms of marketing, or in terms of sales, what questions do you have, how can | help
you? And you have to unmute yourself if you're going to talk.

04:47

Okay, so | have | have something great. Um, so really what I've always been accustomed to is having, like something
to, | guess sell for lack of a better term when I'm when I'm approaching people and like, so it gives me kind of an
anchor to kind of go back on. | mean, not that it's always going to be about the sale or whatever. And obviously want
to help the people do whatever whenever they can. But I’m having a little bit of an issue right now where I'm talking
to people, but | don’t have an agenda other than to help them. But and I'm just kind of guiding through like seeing
how | can help them on whatever, but I'm having like, | don’t have like a specific kind of process, then doing some
kind of feel like I'm floating around. And it's not conversations going well, but I'm not. And they're going, which is the
most important role. So I'm having conversations with is good, but | don't have | feel like they're not. | feel like I'm
kind of floating around asking random questions. Yeah,

Russ 05:42

that's because you're not clear about the process. So you don't know what the next step is. Because you're used to
the next step, being a product, sign here, press hard wire money. But there's always a next step. And if you remember,
in the sales training, | talked about the blind leading the blind, you know, we get into these great conversations, we
connect with people, it's wonderful. And then it gets time to move on to the next thing, and we're not clear. And we
just hope we've built enough enthusiasm that the customer becomes a super strong salmon and can swim upstream
over our sales and competence and find a way to buy from us in spite of ourselves, right? And that's obviously not
the way you want to roll. So you have to know going into every engagement where you're at with that particular
person, and what's your logical next step is, so it's a process problem that you have an a clarity of understanding the
process. Now I'll tell you what the answer is, anytime you're having a conversation with somebody, and you can't talk
about anything that's real, because you don't have anything that’s real. You have to pull out your CGI, remember
your CGI, your hypotheticals, it's your artificial realities that you're able to create, you know, so, and | really
appreciate you getting together with me. And we're having this wonderful conversation. And I've just discovered that
you are looking to change this in your life because of this reason. And we'd like to find more of this and get rid of
some of that because of these reasons. And if somebody could come along and show you all that you'd be great.
Well here's the situation. | don’t have anything just yet. But | am very well connected. I'm always out there looking
either myself or somebody | might no probably will have something at some point in the future. So with your
permission, what | would like to do is just take a few notes, jot this down, I'll put it in my little file. I'll check in with you
from time to time and God forbid if for some reason you don't hear from me feel free to call me but if | find
something that can give you what you want for the reasons you want it and give you all this happiness that you just
told me you really are interested in Can you think of any reason you wouldn't want me to get back with you? Okay, in
other words, I’m just closing for the next date. That's it. I'm just saying that hey, you know, | may not be Mr. Wonderful
right now, but I'm going to go work on myself and when | come back, if I've improved, then maybe we can go ona
second date. Maybe we can even hold hands. right there's a progression of intimacy. And | know that Ken Fisher got
himself kicked out of his company for using this analogy, but | wish he had the stones to defend it because it's spot
on. | mean, building investor trust is like building a romantic relationship. And if your intention is to get intimate with
somebody money, it’s the same technique you have to build a super high level of rapport and trust and you have to
33:02

JO

Yeah. So since we're talking about marketing, | know Randy and Jan are pretty good about this. And you guys send
out emails to your database. So | just was curious as to how often do you have a plan for that as to how often you
guys send out emails to your database? And then how much engagement you get afterwards?

© Russ 33:26

All right. So Randy, that's a question for you and Jana? Sure.

33:30

JO

| we've kind of one of the things that we started out, when we started the letters, we were with 7x capital. And then
they were they were they wrote the first four articles, and | just couldn't stomach them. And so | just decided | needed
to take that over, kind of got rid of that whole piece. And the other thing | didn't like, and then I've seen other people
that use that company is they just bombard you a lot of times. And so | just tried a different technique of, you know, |
started out with a once a month kind of approach, | wanted to just get something out there, but not feel like I'm
saturating anyone. But you know, we're now | got them once a month that I’m committed to but then if | want to put
out two a month or three a month, then you know, I'm just being very, very cautious of just completely, you know,
overloading people because some people get a lot of that. But we do get good engagement back a lot of people will
comment on the article, people have been interested in engaging in learning more about whatever syndication that
we're offering. And so it's been a great tool. My biggest issue in our last meeting of this that we had is just now how
to really develop the great follow up and maintenance of you know, neutering those those people along. So

@) Janna Hubbs 34:44

yeah, the thing we've done is communicated that if you don’t want to receive constant emails from us or information,
please let us know and we put them on a particular list where they only receive have information about their
investment. And that's important because that again builds trust. And we're not flooding those people that are not

really interested in learning about anything. Or to better their their minds and souls with information that we have.
We're not flooding them with that stuff. Yeah. Good.

A, 35:22

That's perfect. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. | know that. The thing is, is that nowadays we just get flooded with

emails daily. So restaurant Miyata, Men's wearhouse. And | get two of them a day from bed, and you can still hit
unsubscribe, but yeah, | think

@ Russ 35:36

they send you coupons, and that keeps you subscribing. And maybe this one will have a coupon.
Jc

JO

35:43
By shirt, by the way,

35:44

yeah, there you go. But yeah, | mean, with Randy, | know, you've sent out some good emails, and | do like that. And |
think that's a great way to engage. | think the main thing about marketing is you just have to keep touching people
too, and letting them know you're there and educating them is super important. Now one thing I've noticed that
some other syndicators because | get I'm on their email list, too, is mainly they're just sending out webinars. And so |
think that's, that’s okay. But when all you're doing is giving webinars that then it kind of is just it really is more salesy
than it is education.

Russ 36:22

Yeah, | think one thing that Randy brought up that | think was good is good is that he made a commitment to a
steady heartbeat. And he chose something that he felt he could commit to and execute on, that wouldn't be overly
burdensome. But then he wasn't dogmatic about it. He said, Well, I'm that's going to be my baseline. But | may
choose to add some to it. If if there's something that | want to say that’s a value that doesn't fit inside my regular
heartbeat. And | think that's really good, because there's both the overt messaging. And then there's the subliminal
messaging and the subliminal messaging is that | am dependable, | am consistent, | am reliable. And so | think in this
business, it's especially important that you look for every way possible, to exhibit to people without, you know,
without boasting, or being, you know, self aggrandizing. But you want to constantly be painting the picture that
you're detail oriented, that you follow up and follow through, that you're consistent, you're reliable, you're
dependable, you're trustworthy, and you have to look for every opportunity to do that. | think, and | didn't read seven
axis stuff, Randy, and | haven't read that much of your stuff, to be honest, but just knowing you and having seen

some of their stuff written for other people, you know, when you read something that doesn't reflect your values, it
doesn't resonate inside your heart, then there's going to be a incongruity a disconnect between the picture of you
that your marketing is painting and the reality of you when you get into that one on one sales conversation. | think
it's really important that your website that your appearance, that your vehicle, that your business card, for those of us
that use those these days, or every single thing that you say and do is is congruent as it can be with how you really
are when they're talking with you one on one. And it’s subtle, they won't know why they don't trust you. And you
won't know why they don't trust you but it could just be because it isn't what you see is what you get and there's so
many snake oil salespeople in this world and there's so many people that try to outsource their their relationship
building and their marketing communications, | think every any any top guru will tell you that you should hold on to
that as long as possible. And until you're certain that you have built a brand and a culture and a team that upholds
and understands that value and culture and then you begin to you can begin to let go and, and automate and
delegate a little bit better. | mean, look how long you know that I'm still writing the newsletter and | still get involved
in a lot of our provider discussions and, and so on. | mean, in the syndication mentoring club, look how slowly we're
moving and how much time we spend with inner circle and calls like this. Still very much all over it. Could we be
bigger if we put out more content and delegated more sure, but it would come at the sacrifice of the spirit of who we
are and what we're doing and that's our secret sauce. To quote Kyle Wilson in this business. You're not trying to be a
big national brand, like people are seeing on TV, you're not trying to be a talking head, you're not trying to be fancy,
you're not trying to look like the people you're trying to pry them away from. | mean, you know, you want to look like
your very own version of Main Street, the guy next door, the trusted friend, that is trusted, both in terms of ethics, but
also in terms of competency. And | add to that more C's capacity, commitment and consistency, when you have
those five C's. When people trust your competency, your commitment, your character, your what's the other one?
character, commitment and consistency, capacity? competence. Yeah. So you know, | mean, and | tend to do this
because | hate to disappoint people. And Stacy knows this is a weakness of mine, and I'm not proud of it. But
sometimes | get frazzled. Right, you know, fortunately, I’m not in the money business. And when I'm frazzled, and |
CC - June 24, 2020 - Q&A LIVE Call on Sales and
Marketing wi...

@ Mon, 9/27 9:39PM @57:09

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, deal, talking, syndication, question, marketing, sales, randy, create, relationship, understand, techniques, business, trust,

building, investors, backdrop, conversation, training, find

SPEAKERS

Russ, Janna Hubbs

) Russ 00:16

All right syndication mentoring club, this is our q&a, we're going to be talking about sales and marketing. We have a
bunch of lovely members. With us, we didn't have any questions submitted in advance. And since this is a q&a, it’s up
to those of you who are on the call to actually ask the question. If not, | can monologue a little bit. But | really don't
want to, what | really want to do is react to what you're experiencing out there in the real world. And it can be both
marketing, which is about generating some form of a first impression. And cultivating that first impression into
stimulating someone that you're communicating with to take an action, that initiate engagement. So a call to action
is always at the end of your marketing, whether it’s get on my email list, so now | can talk to you or call me for a
consultation, or a meeting or whatever. Once you get them on your list, then you're still marketing to them. If you get
their phone number, then you're calling them from time to time, which is all really part of marketing, until you get to
the point where you can enter the sales process, which starts with setting the table. And part of setting the table is
making a good first impression. And then getting that agenda out, you know, gee, Mr. Johnson, thanks so much for
taking my call. Happy to be talking with you today. We've got turn my turn my deal over. We've got X amount of time
together, and | have some things I'd like to speak with you about. But before | go there, I'd like to find out, what
would you like to get done, this call won't be home run for you. And now you're entering into the sales process.
Because once they tell you what they're interested in, it's going to start a conversation, which you're going to lead,
not by talking, but by asking questions and listening. And then as you go through that process, you're going to be
looking for needs wants, desires, goals and objectives based on key words, things, they like things, they don't like,
emotional energy, negative or positive, they may overtly tell you and be consciously aware, they've told you don't
ever assume that’s the case. Many times they will be revealing things about their heart that they're not really
consciously aware of. And one of the ways you earn their trust is by carefully listening to those heart words and
expressions. And then once you've identified what those are, and you feel that you can attach some type of a
benefit, or create some kind of a benefit by attaching a feature of your product or service to it, then when you repeat
that back to them, and let them know, Mr. Johnson, | really appreciate everything you've shared with me what | what
I've heard, you say is this, this, this and this, and it causes this emotional response in you. And, and because of that
you would like to make this change in your life. Or we'd like to try to find an answer. And then you gain agreement
does that? Did | hear you correctly, and then they're either going to clarify your misunderstanding, or they're going to
validate your understanding and be impressed that you get them that you understand them. And then from that
point forward, the transition statement is that I've got great news for you. I'm pretty sure we can help you or at least |
can introduce you to somebody that can help you on the Ask a trial close, if I'm able to show you a way to achieve
mastermind group and start getting together with people in your mastermind and making them better and
improving your skills and finding ways to cooperatively leverage each other's time talent and budgets to reach more
people faster. Okay. All right. So that’s a wrap. Thanks to everybody. Thank you
O°
O)

JO

JO

I'm super new to this process. But I've found a couple of good deals. And I've been trying to prospect those deals to
better

19:23

deal and pay me like a finder's fee or partner with me on a deal equally on an equal percentage basis. Like |'m just
giving them a deal and then wanting to find your seat or something and | don't know. that clear. I'm sorry. Got some

road noise.

Russ 19:44

Yeah, definitely. | think a very important chunk of your explanation that disappeared into into the no bar zone. Okay,

why don't you try it. Take it from the top. Okay,

Tay

so I've got some good deals, and I'm pretty Look, I'm presenting those deals to investors. And the problem I'm
running into is that the investors want to take over the deal. Like | have a team of attorneys | presented a deal to,
they want to take over the deal and pay me a finder’s fee. Or they want to take over the deal and participate
participate with me on the deal on a percentage basis, like a pro rata based on the amount of investment that each
person puts in. And they don't really want to do a syndication because they think they can do their own syndications.
So | don't know if this is something that other people have run into. But how do I, you know, how do | clarify that with
investors? Or how do | transition them to the point where they realize I'm a syndicator? And they're a participate?

participant in my syndication?

Russ 20:46

Yeah. Okay. So that part of it is a sales question. Part of it could be a legal question in terms of structure, making
sure you have a non disclosure non compete before you actually show somebody the deal. Or it could be a deal a
question where you're just making sure that you have firm control over the deal, before you're out there touting it so
that you can't be circumvented because you have control. So I'm just going to talk to the first part of it, which is
really the sales part of it. But you really can't do that without kind of knowing the context. So let me start with just
understanding the context of the deal. Do you have control of the deal? Are you under contract? Or are you Is it
something that's just kind of floating out there? And you're one of many people circling?

21:39

Well, I'm okay. So I'm talking with the broker. And | was afraid to get a deal under contract.

© Russ 21:48

It's a simple question. Either you have it under contract, or you don't?
JO

express to somebody, I'm frazzled. You know, that's one thing in in the area, the business | work in, but you know, you
don't want to be running around like a chicken with your head chopped off complaining about how frazzled you are
when you're managing millions and millions of other people’s money. Right, that’s not the image you want to project.
So what | talked about in, in the very beginning of every inner circle, as you know, and what Robert talks about it
create your future. And, you know, we talked about quite a bit in the sales training, building your brand and building
your network. Step number one and building your brand is your presentation, you got to have a vision for who you
are. And then you have to constantly measure yourself against that vision, am | portraying myself in a way that is
consistent with the best parts of who | am, you don't have to air all your dirty laundry, you don't have to be so
transparent that everybody sees your, you know, the ugly spots, and you should be working on those, you should see
them so that you can work on them. Because otherwise they'll manifest at the worst possible times, you know, when
you're under pressure. But you definitely want to have a clear vision of who you are. And then measure all of your
marketing and messaging, and your sales interactions against that and ask yourself, Am | being true to who the
highest and best me and my being whom I'm becoming, and that's a big part of successful sales and marketing, if
you're congruent, and people trust you, what you see is what you get, you don't have to be fast talking, you don't
have to be eloquent, you don't have to be slick. You don't have to be high, strong. You don't have to have a long
resume. But people will trust you. And when they trust you, at every level, they'll buy from you. If as long as the deal
makes sense. And you shouldn't be offering anybody a deal. That doesn't make sense, right? A confidence person,
you know, like the kind you see on American greed are the kinds of people that use all of these techniques that I'm
explaining to sell snake oil to hurt people. Right. So you know, the techniques that they use to build that high level of
trust, where wealthy smart people give over lots of money and control to them. Those are all fantastic techniques,
and you should use them. But the other side of it, as Ben Parker told Peter Parker in the original Spider Man movie,
you know, with great power comes great responsibility. If you have the power to get people to trust you, you have the
responsibility to use it, to help them to serve them to improve their lot in life. But not for any other reason. If you do
that, and the deal is right, you'll improve your lot in life automatically. You don't have to strive for that. Okay, off my
soapbox. All right, what else? Going once Randy's thinking Randy’s talking muted. Sorry. There you go. | see your lips
moving.

44:01

| had a quick question for Stacy. What was the we've talked about with Avi the last time but then you mentioned
some other program and | meant to look through that. What what was another one that you saw? It 10x Pro? Like
1010. | O is the website? LinkedIn, they just the x letter x, t and X? Yeah, I'll put it. I'll put it in the chat. Oh, cool.
Awesome.

Janna Hubbs 44:33

Perfect. | was gonna make a comment on take off from what Ruben was asking him talking about and that is, we're
marketing, our special needs housing. And one of the things whether it’s right or wrong, it just fits. What we're doing
is trying to map out how we are communicating and who our audience is. So some of those are phone calls. roles so
that we can personally communicate and touch the heart, touch the intellect, let them know why we are we have the
interest and the knowledge and that type of thing. Then also using our vas and actually writing a, the information
out and having them submit out this information to our targeted audience. And so the VA role, our responsibility is to
take the database that I've found for a particular area, like, right now it's in Montana. And putting that into a format
that is easy, but | don't want to do it. So I'm handing that off. And so that we can do mail merge that type of thing,
identifying what types of things we're going to actually send letters to in the mail. And so then we've got a
combination of emails, we have a combination of actual physical mails, we have the touch of the vocal with

personally on the phone, and that type of thing. And so we're just trying to figure out different ways that we can
JO

_)oO

not about the deal. First, it's about the relationship first. So if you go in talking about the deal, before you've
established the relationship, then the relationship can get in the way of doing the deal. And | think that’s what you
ran into. We start with the relationship.

25°30

clarify the relationship before you pitch deals, or get the groundwork laid out as to why it makes sense for me to run
the syndication rather than here's the deal. You know, and then it's kind of nebulous as to what goes on after that, or
what, you know, | guess that makes sense.

Russ 25:50

Well, it always makes sense. Again, I'm gonna go back to the same thing | said before, and because Janna knows
how | am, and my daughter really knows how | am, and I'll take my chances with anybody ever that watches this in
the future, because | just flat think that if you look at it this way, it's easy, right? If you see a beautiful woman, and
you're interested in her and your your business, building a life, you're building a family, you are thinking about
creating a legacy, it's not a one night stand, then the relationship is way more important than the transaction. If you
get the relationship right, there will be a lot of transactions. Does that make sense? He's muted. Well, hopefully that
makes sense. Maybe,

26:42

yeah, that makes sense. Thank you,

Russ 26:44

| appreciate it. It just makes it so when you remember that, it just makes it so much easier. That's why you know,
when Robert and | first sat down, and we established what our core values were going to be for doing our business,
the very first one was relationships for life. We entered every relationship, like we're in it for the long haul, you're
going to be we're going to become friends, we're going to become family, we're going to cruise together, we're going
to party together, we're going to raise our kids together, we're going to go through the ups and downs of life
together, we're going to go to each other's weddings, and funerals and all of those things. If you look at your
relationships that way, and then cultivate your understanding of someone's needs, and you go seek solutions for
them. And then you put together solutions in a package that pays you for delivering them, which is reasonable
because you're adding value and no good person is going to fault you for making a profit for adding value. That's the
essence of capitalism. If you find somebody that fault you for making money for delivering a solution, then they're
not good relationship to be in, they'll never appreciate you It’s like being in an abusive relationship. You know where
where the person doesn't doesn't cherish you doesn't honor you doesn't want you to be satisfied only wants to satisfy
themselves. It's no different. And so if you just look at it that way, it makes it just it just makes it so much easier. So
anyway, | don't mean to overplay. But | do want to emphasize because | say this often in Tony, if you haven't been
through the How to Win funds and influence training, influence funds training, it is in the platform, it's not our best
work, and I'll apologize for it in advance, but it’s better than not getting the training. And once this COVID-19 thing,
you know, cleans out and we're able to get together without having to use megaphones to talk to each other, we'll
get into the classroom and do some real one on one sales training. And, you know, with the role playing and all that
because it's super powerful. But in the meantime, my suggestion to everybody watching this everybody on this call,
and it My suggestion has been from day one, you have access to those videos and all the worksheets, | would
definitely would create a mastermind group of people that you want to cooperatively market with people that are
_)oO

Oo
O)

move carefully. You're not there to use them. You're there to love them and take care of them But to do that, well you
have to understand them. Does that answer the question it Yeah, and again, | exaggerate the technique you know,
you don't really would use you wouldn't really use the technique like that in the real world. | mean, | exaggerated so
that you can see the transitions but there's a progression you go through in the communication and it's the same

pattern every time

09:04

Yeah, | think | was just | know what | was doing | was | was because | didn't have anything specific that | was | was
kind of just floating around too much and | know that basically the point is to see | mean flesh out what it is that
they want and then they close if you will is to say okay as soon as | when | you know I'll be in touch with you and if |
find something that fits all the stuff that you need then and let's you know then let’s then we'll talk further

Russ 09:32

errors, two errors in your in your, in your preparation is what caused the problem. Error number one is not reviewing
and being clear on your process and the next step before you went into the call. And error number two is not setting
your focus solely on them. Because you were thinking about you, you you you you missed a little bit, not a lot It's not
like you're selfish. It's just a natural human tendency. And if you just set your set your focus prior to the engagement
properly, you'll you'll completely eliminate those two problems. Okay. All right, great question. Thank you hope
everybody. Anybody have any questions or comments about that before we move on anything else? helpful, | hope |
know it's a little repetitive. But the follow

10:26

up on one question is, so would you. | mean, | think it would be okay to just send like a sample of like, because a lot
of people I'm talking to I've never done real estate syndications before, so it'd be fine to kind of send them send them
an example of what a what kind of my prior deal. | mean, because that's not selling anything, right. | mean, | would
assume that that would

Russ 10:47

be so there's two parts to that question. It's a great question. three parts, okay. But Part Number one, is the answer to
the question depends completely on the individual and where they're at. Once you're selling, it's no longer marketing,
it's no longer mass, it’s no longer one size fits all. It's 100% personal, you wouldn't send a form letter to thank that
beautiful, beautiful woman of your dreams for that wonderful first date. It’s personal. Always remember that? Okay,
so that's number one. Number two, is that | forgot what number two and three were Okay, so So, oh, number two, is
that education is always a part of the next step. Because the basic premise is education for effective action. And the
education isn't just product or economics, but it's also self awareness of their needs, wants desires, goals, and
objectives, frustrations. It's also about you and your company, and your qualifications. It's uh, you know, it’s, it’s, it's
wherever they're at whatever, in your conversation, when you're bringing things up, and you're reading their body
language or their questions and gauging whether or not they understand. And if you find yourself slipping into, you
know, sales mumbo jumbo you remember the mumbo jumbo guy and that training, then then apologize and say,
Hey, you know, | mean, | don't want to assume too much. | mean, and | also don't want to talk down. But you know,
sometimes | live in my own head. And | brought up a concept, | just want to make sure you're clear on if you have any
questions about this concept, whatever the concept was, in what you're doing as you're testing it. And then and then
if they, if they aren't clear, then over time, in your conversations with lots and lots of people, you will start to realize,
