Russ 32:40

Yeah, | think and | think that this comes down to there's two parts to it. And | loved what you said about vision. | think
that was great. | think when you have the right person, you bring the vision and someone like Stacey has what she
does for me she takes the vision and she she asked me questions until it’s really really clear and then it starts to
become a picture on an on a whiteboard with

Staci Gray 33:06

everything is what we have found so useful, especially if you and Randy have differing approaches to to it is go to go
get a whiteboard, and don't have anything else around and just hash it out with a whiteboard. And once you agree
with it, and it’s actually in picture form, just take a picture of that whiteboard. And then you guys can both be on the
same page. And you can execute on that because you you're coming from one angle and he’s coming from another
angle, and you guys could communicate and walk away from that conversation thinking you both are exactly
agreeing. But without the picture you're really not agreeing and

Russ 33:47

it's a big whiteboard. And | found the | found the other thing that really helps is to have like a big stack of post it
notes because you can put processes on the post it notes, stick them on the whiteboard and then draw arrows and
change arrows and move things around without having to rewrite. So it's just a little safety tip or a little efficiency tip.
| had something that | thought was kind of a quotable comment that because there was something else that you
said Jana that I'm not I'm not gonna say challenge you on but I'm going to ask you to consider because | know it’s
something that I've got hung up on you said well, you know | want to make sure that | know how to do it before | give
it to somebody else. | have found that when this is the quote now Ready, Set ready take notes. When you have the
right operations person on the bus, letting go is the shortest path to going faster. If you let go and it doesn't go faster.
The problem isn't that you let go. The problem is you got the wrong person. the right person when you let go will
make it happen when | let go of things to Stacey things happen. There are other people in my life when | let go |
have to take Get back. Okay, that the act of lead the lesson there isn't Okay, if you want it done right? Do it yourself.
Right? The lesson isn't, nobody can do it as good as me. I've learned every single time | try to delegate, it goes
terrible. And so Stacy said, That's because you hire the wrong people. Because you you, you don't manage them
properly, like, okay, but it’s true. Then once | finally realized that about myself, | said, Okay, then, you know, | tell the
one thing, story, an inner circle, and you've heard me say it, but for those of you that haven't heard it, is that, you
know, When, when, when my wife got sick, and | realized that | needed to increase income quickly, and | need to
reorganize my life so that | would be, you know, making more money in less time, then | realized that | had to change
because the definition of insanity is doing the same thing you've always done expecting a different result. And even
though | wasn't unhappy with the result of the lifestyle, it was kind of free and easy and more to the bottom line. It
definitely wasn't scalable. And if my wife went short time with her illness, | wasn't gonna be able to spend any time
with her. And | certainly wasn't gonna be able to ramp up if she needed more care. So | locked myself in a room with
Gary Keller's book The one thing and | asked myself the focusing question, what's the one thing | can do that by so
doing will make everything else | need to do either easier or unnecessary? And the answer was, | need to design and
build a team, which was totally intimidating to me because of my failure last time. So then | said, Okay, well, what's
the one thing that | could do that would make that easier or unnecessary? Find a great team builder. Great. Okay,
well, the known commodity, the person who helped me do it the first time was Stacey. And so | called her up and |
said, Hey, and | just happened to catch her when she was in transition. And that worked out great, | think, for both of
us, because she was able to bring exactly what | needed when | needed it. And | think that we were able to create an
opportunity for her that was better than the thing that she was doing. And, you know, now she's part of the culture,
part of the mission, but has her own business, and for as far as | can tell, is adding a lot of value to people. So, you
JO

equity in the stock market. | think they may end up seeing some of that go pretty soon. But we'll see, you know, we
don't know for sure, the stock market could boom like Venezuela's did. And then you have a whole different
discussion, like, What the heck's going on with the dollar. So there's a lot of things but there's also a lot of things to
be talking about a lot of things that people who have money are concerned about right now, | think is you know, of
course, we talked about that a lot on the show and in the newsletter, and we'll be doing a lot more on our YouTube
channel, too, as a way to do more outreach, we're stepping up our content creation schedule, because we feel like
the amount of messaging The world needs from voices that they trust has gone way up. And if we don't meet that
need, they're going to go someplace else to get that itch scratched. And so we see it as an opportunity, but we're
going to have to hustle. So | want to encourage all of you that | think right now the opportunity to be a syndicator to
start a syndication business has probably gotten even better. | think the argument can clearly be made that there's
going to be blood in the streets there's going to be a lot of deals, a lot of quality assets are going to get thrown out
with the bad a lot of people who are higher up the food chain are in front line to get all the money that's being
printed, that money is going to need a home a lot of those folks are going to want some of that money to be on
Main Street think they're going to realize Main Street is much more safer place to be and the big item that hinders
them is they don't know how to get there. They don’t know how to connect well you offer that you are the connection
and so there's a big opportunity right now but you got to get the team in place because all the work that needs to be
done for you to capitalize on the opportunity you can't do as a one man or one woman band | know you can't we've
had you know Robert and | the real estate guys have had giant opportunity for a decade but we've plugged along in
the beginning because we were recovering you know psychologically and financially from a wipe out and then and
then you know the last five years have been me just kind of hedging my commitments because | wasn't sure about
my wife's health well now | know what the outcome of my wife's health is | know where that is. And now I'm you know
committed very committed in trying to move as quickly as possible to take advantage of the opportunity so you
know, we all have our own little red wagon support we own we all have our own demons to deal with but there's a
window of opportunity right now and | encourage you that you know don't don't hesitate to grab it if the only thing
stopping you is money money is going to be the easiest thing to gain. And the key to that is going to be great great
sales skills and if you don't have that go find somebody who's good at it and get that person on the bus and then
bring everybody else on board so anyway | could go on but | want anything else that anybody wants to ask or add

before we wind this thing down. closing thoughts

53:01

say this was | just think this was a great call so | just appreciate it and appreciate all the great information. Thanks
Shelby Samantha notes and yeah, this was kind of helped me a lot

Russ 53:11

well you know these things live forever and what makes them possible is when you guys show up so the more
participation in the program we get the better the program gets we're still very much in the founding stages and we
do have people you know they quit and I'm gonna do a video kind of I'm calling it my retention video. But you know
if people come and say well | already got what | came for. Well that's not what this is about. This isn’t about taking
this is about giving and growing together if you just came in to take well I'm glad you quit because | don’t want you
the people we want are people in here that want to see other people become successful if you're strong if you've
learned if you've got something then turn around and give back and help the next person up there is so much and
the thing is it pays you back if you don't believe in the Law of Reciprocity if you don't believe that the universe will
reward you for what you sow you reap what you sow, then then you don't belong in this program because that's not
our culture. This culture is about helping each other and sharing so even your problems even your questions even
your frustrations are helpful when you bring them in we mastermind down them you help each of those of us that
you know have latent brilliance, it comes up and it comes out and all sudden it's like wow we have something to give
our confidence level goes up you learn your confidence level goes up your problems get solved. You get to the point
where now you've got an abundance of resources and wisdom and experience and then the next person comes on
board and they ask a question and you're in that mentoring role whether it's in a community call, you know
mastermind call or or on maybe one of these, you know, case studies where we delve deep into a deal that you did
successfully or maybe a post mortem on something that went horribly wrong. Like a Halloween Horror Story, but
there's a lot of brilliance in the program. So when you bring your when you when you participate, when you bring
your brilliance, you bring your frustrations, it helps a program be better. So | really appreciate that Joe, and |
appreciate all of you for being on the call and your continued participation in the program, help us recruit more
people, because obviously the bigger it gets, the better it's going to get, and continue to reinforce the reasons why
we're here is not to take to give and grow. And if we do that, then we're all going to have more than enough. And
we're going to make a real dent in the world. And if it isn't obvious by now that the world needs ethical competent
people helping Main Street invest in Main Street, more now than ever before, and probably even more so in the
future. We're absolutely in the right place at the right time. We just, we just got to get it done. And that's where folks
like Stacey Come on. Because you know, you can have all the passion and vision in the world as | do. But if you can't
execute, it doesn’t matter. It’s just a budget. It's a bunch of motivational talk. So you know, the rubber meets the road
and the devils in the details and good operators can take that vision and passion that you have to get something
done. And they make it happen and they don't need much from you. They just need your permission and your
support and then you get out of the way and let them do their thing. So with that said, I'll give the last word to Stace.
And then we'll wrap this thing up.

G) Staci Gray 56:19

| don't even think | need the last word. | think that was awesome. | appreciate all of you and all of your energy that
you brought to today.

© Russ 56:27

Thanks, everybody. We'll see you on the next one. Thank you
© Staci Gray 16:21

So I've studied traction EOS scaling up, and it’s a hybrid of them. So it's not 100% the EOS model, | find

© Russ 16:34

we watch 10 years of dealing with a delusional visionary.

@) Staci Gray 16:39

| actually was just talking, I'm being coached right now by Tony Robbins results coach, and we were going over my
disc profile, and then | was discussing Ross's disc profile. Yeah. And | don't know if | can disclose what your disc
profile you can. Yeah. So he is a 100 D, like 100. So and then his C is very high. Also, | think it's like 78. So he has like
this intense desire to go fast. And then his see shows up, and he’s like, wait, we can’t go fast. Because we have all of
these things that we need to put in place before we can go fast. And so he has an internal war with himself. Because
he wants to go, he's hard hitting and wants to go, but then his See, the analytical one shows up and says, Oh, wait,
we could do it like this, this and this. And then she’s like, no, go, let's go. And so it was so fascinating for me, because
having worked within that environment for so long, and trying to keep things moving forward, it was so clarifying the
ways in which | could do it. So anyways, we did go through, we did do traction we've done, we've done a lot of
different coaching business coaching over the years. Um, there were some things that | felt like was missing in
traction, that | found scaling up included, so cash management, and some KPIs. And so we started incorporating
also, have you read, um, okrs, measure what matters, it's a really good book about. So it's kind of a hybrid of things
that we use, that seems to be working very well works really, really well for us. And then all of the people that I’ve
been working with, too,

@ Russ 18:21

yeah, just a little plug for measure what matters. That book was written by a venture capitalist named john Doerr,
who was involved in the founding of Intel, and then took the money that he made in that and became a VC. And he
funded a little organization called Google. And he had these two Brainiac driven young entrepreneurs. And he
disciplined them with the measure of what matters methodology and obviously built one of the largest, most
successful companies on Earth. So he you know, it’s not just a book that some academic wrote in a corner
somewhere, some theorist who studied a bunch of successful people, the guy’s lived it, he’s taught it, and he’s
produced real impressive results with it. So it works. And he doesn't claim to have invented it. He learned it from the
guys, the founders of Intel, | think Gordon Moore, and | can't remember the other guy’s name, but | you know, |
remember that because | grew up in Silicon Valley. These guys were all legends. You know, my dad in the
semiconductor business. These guys were all legends in Silicon Valley in the 80s. | remember watching all this unfold.
Okay, so anybody want to chime in additional question or clarity on any of that or feedback, any experience? You

may have books, you might want to recommend anything at all. Okay, moving on, who's got a question

() Staci Gray 19:45

that raised his hand septic.
JO

24:09

Gotcha. Yes. Thank you so much. Perfect. Sure. Who else?

Russ 24:18

Much more helpful for us. Yeah. Jana, if you bring questions to the party.

Janna Hubbs 24:23

So we have purchased the highest level of calendar Li that we that they offer, and we're trying to get on board with
that. We have a gentleman that contacted us who saw or heard us on a podcast, Randy and | on a podcast and
said, Hey, would you mind mentoring us, I've got some | want to bring value to your company. And so we've asked
him to help us get that started. | struggle with | want it done now. But | also have that piece in me that says We need
to take it a step at a time, is there any tools out there to help bridge our calendly to our app or not AppFolio Excuse
me, | need to see what it’s called just Active Campaign, and things like that. So that as we are publicizing as we are
setting up meetings, that that type of thing that it merges together fairly quickly

Russ 25:29

stays you want to,

Staci Gray 25:30

are you trying to merge or connect the contact information,

@) Janna Hubbs 25:40

we're trying to merge the contact information and then have that link, of course, set up to where they can establish
meetings with us that we can do the we do. webinars, you know, through zoom meetings, and that type of thing, but

we want everything linked together

Russ 26:00

for it. So let me I'm gonna jump in, and Stacy, I'm gonna completely if | end up, you know, Exceeding my paygrade,
which is highly likely, go ahead and stop me. But my experience, which is very limited in the high tech world, but |
think valuable, is how | approach the problem. And so in this case, you've got a tool and input tool called calendly.
And somebody, an end user is going to put data into that input tool, like a webform to trigger a sequence of events.
So when you understand where the components of the systems fit, then you understand where you have to work
from to figure out if you have the right tool, somebody may come along, say, oh, Canada leads the bomb, and you're
like, Okay, that’s great. And then you're trying to get it to integrate into Active Campaign, but Active Campaign,
maybe doesn't integrate well with calendly. And you think, oh, okay, and now you're busy thinking, Okay, what can |
do to fix my CRM to work better with my calendar tool? And | think that would be a backwards approach, because
your main tool is your CRM. So most of the CRM are going to have in their in their list of partners, because you're
you're trying to solve a problem that has been solved a million times before. And the people who know how to solve
| just have one more thing to add on that. Sure. | think of execution because culture and clarity is really important in
having that concurrency across the visionary through the execution team is huge, but how you actually do it from a
tactical perspective. And maybe Second, you talk to Lisa and David about this, but it's a one sheet that everybody
lives off of for that quarter. And then all of your, your, your journey. During this syndication, fast start training we did
what are the 10 core processes or core vital functions that need to happen in order, in order to run a syndication
business, we actually process map those completely out. So some of them had more than others. And depending on
the type of syndication you're doing, or how you're attracting your investors is a little bit different, but they're
completely mapped out into a PDF document literally, with who's doing what, and then as it's being built and
executed daily. SOPs are being created, standard operating procedures are getting created. And it’s a it’s a living
document. So as the business is growing, and as you're getting more clarity at the syndicator, and how you want to
execute, we are updating the process maps and the SOPs to be in line with what you're deciding. So there's no like
reinventing the wheel or doing things over and over again, it's becomes a process. So that allows the clarity to be
tactical, because | found that a lot of visionaries think they're clear. And they think they're communicating clearly to
their team. And it's just not landing. So when you actually have it in an executable document, and everybody's
working off of that, when there is mistakes that are happening, everyone is anchoring back to what is the SOP say
and then let's update the SOP so we're all clear. In it, it lends itself to a quicker execution and more accurate

execution.

© Russ 13:20

Well, and faster recovery from mistakes and less repetition of mistakes. And also, the other thing is, is that it provides
for redundancy and critical functions, it's a lot easier to train and cross train and have backups in every vital role.
When you have procedures if the way things get done change from person to person, or the way things get done,
walk out the door, if that person gets sick or dies or quits, then you're you're doing a lot of reinvention. So to put real
stability, and if you do it right, if you really do it right, you can begin to make this a selling proposition when you're
explaining to your investors why you're different than you know, every small. You know, Tom, Dick and Harry
syndicator out there, it's because you run your syndication business like a business, you're not just this one man band,
or one woman band running around with your hair on fire, and just reacting to things and you know, with with good
morals and good work ethic and superhuman dedication and strength, somehow, some way you'll muddle through, |
mean, you can play at that level to a point, but it'll burn you out and eventually you will fail. Because you'll press
yourself to the point of failure and you will have no backup you will have no plan B. That's why this is such an
important part of this program is understanding what you can begin to do now it’s ideal for someone who's good at
selling because if you're good at selling, then you just go sell and these folks become your team becomes the wind
beneath your wings. And you don't have to worry about this stuff. That's the ideal scenario. But for some of you, it’s
not your strength, you're much better on the deal side than you are on the selling side, in which case, you know, what
you need to do is go throw a deal together, make enough money or go raise enough money with whatever limited
sales skills, you may have to come up with enough funding to be able to get both an investor relations person on
board and an operational team on board. And then you just focus on the deal side, it goes back to what Stacey
opened up with understanding what is your sweet spot. And if you go to our original personal syndication philosophy
videos in the platform, we talked about that what that's defined as it’s what needs to be done, what you're good at,
and what can be monetized. And if you if you find that sweet spot, then then then and operate within that sweet
spot. Is that right? Did | just say that right space? | feel like | missed one. Right? What you're great at what needs to
be done? Yeah, and | think what's my what monetizes? Anyway. I'm resting now she does all that work for me. | don't
have to do it anymore. | know what my sweet spot is. And operations is not it. Okay, so who else has a question or

comment, Jana?

@) Janna Hubbs 16:17

Do you follow the traction model then?
_JO

JO

monologue by you all a little bit of time. We're really not here to teach as much as we are to answer. So let's just, if
you if you have a question, if | can see you raise your hand, if not just pipe up. We'll just go one at a time and go
round robin and talk about whatever comes up. So CEP, you want to kick us off? Did you come to the party with a
question, but john spot a little bit?

04:11

Well, just a couple of ideas with that. | actually had some questions for Stacy because I've | spoke with Felicia a
couple weeks back and | believe that David Kafka had mentioned how you're helping him out with his business and |
hope I'm not getting those customers confused. But | was just wondering if you can if you can kind of elaborate more
because both of them have been raving about you know, the help that you and your team have been able to help
them with with marketing and scaling. is are there are there because | was planning on having a conversation with
you afterwards anyways, but | guess anything that you can share just that that you think might help us on the call,
like helping them get unstuck and to focus on the three things that Russ talked about investors, teams, adding deals.

Russ 04:59

Yeah, I'm getting I’m going to jump in real quick Sep, just you know, just without naming names. | think states one
thing that would just be helpful is understanding when you find an entrepreneur in crisis, which | think certainly is
where | was at. And then I'm guessing, knowing some of the folks that you're working with on our program where
they were at, what what is kind of the process, you take them through from diagnosing what their situation is, and
then beginning to implement it a reasonable pace is that step | don’t want to take your question from you, but I’m
just kind of refocusing it a little bit. ls that the gist of what you're asking? Yeah, that's

05:39

more fine tuned. Okay.

Russ 05:41
Okay, Stace.

Staci Gray 05:43

Yeah. Um, so with organized to scale, and with the people that I've been helping, the first thing | do is figure out what
their sweet spot is. So what it is that they really makes them feel alive and fulfill them what they want to focus all of
their time and energy doing. And then we, we back into organizing the business to fulfill that for them. Because | find
that sometimes visionaries and entrepreneurs, they think they have to do everything, or they tried to learn the things
that they're not good at, or they tried to force themselves to do the things that they’re not good at, because they're
not sure who to outsource to and then it just doles their energy, and they can't really focus on the things that they
want to. So the first thing we do is we find out what their sweet spot is. And it could be, they want to focus on sales
and relationships, but they also want geographic freedom. So setting it all up so they can actually function in that
way is the first thing. And then once we identify what that is we work on, we spend three days together. And we work
on what their B hag is, what their three to five year goals are, what their one year goals are, and what their quarterly
goals are. And even beyond that, we identify what their purpose is for their syndication business and what their core
know, | think Jana and anybody who's sitting there at that place, where it's like, how do | get to the next level, what
I'm saying is, is that you have to let go, and to let go, is you have to have the right person to let go to, and the right
person doesn't need a lot from you. And what they do need, they will pull out of you relentlessly, right, they will know
what they need, and they will take it, they will not be sitting around waiting for you to lead them. They're leaders.

And so that's the magic about having somebody like Stacy on board. And they're few and far between. | can tell you
that because we've had experienced managers with really impressive resumes and great pedigrees, they were abject
failures. And I've seen Kiyosaki go through the same thing. So but that’s the secret. That really is the secret. So Stacy,
you have anything you want to add on that having been on the other side of all that.

@) Staci Gray 38:14

| agree 100%, in terms of just the visionary operator relationship, | think a good if when you find a good operator,
they will they don't need much at all. And | have even found that with some of the people that I've hired, who are
operating different divisions and OTS, they require very little from me, and anything that they do want they they raise
their hand and they're pleasantly persistent, getting what they need, so they can move forward. So | think finding
that right person for you. And then also, | think, especially with people who are in family businesses, | think having a
third party coach or strategist or consultant, or something is really, really helpful to get the processes and systems
out without there being any underlying 2530 years of dynamic that you may have in a family relationship. It really

helps remove that and have a mediator so you can really execute and move forward.

© Russ 39:21

And I'll just add one more thing that | think is also important, and that is that you have to give the people who you
are interesting a job to do you know that you need them to do something, you have to give them permission to make
demands of you. You know, I've told Stacy many times, you know, she has she knows she doesn't even ask permission
where she knows but | mean | give people permission stand on my head if you have to, you know stand on my desk,
yell and scream you if you need something to get the job that I'm asking you to do. If you need something for me to
get it done. Then Then you know you have my permission to her harass me, until you get it. And | think they have to
feel that level of support from you. And I, you know, | wish | did better | get stressed out and overwhelmed and snippy
from time to time, but | try not to, but they have to feel that you're you're there that you're supporting that you're, you
know, you're going to give them what you need, that you're not stifling. And they're always going to feel me because
they're hard charges, right, they're always going to want more, you're never going to be adequate, I've have to learn
to be in a situation where every day | feel like I’m letting the team down. But that desire to not let the team down
gets me to get up every day and push harder and do my best and you know, want to get behind, | try to catch up.
And you know, you can't, you don't want excuses for them. You can’t accept excuses from yourself, | mean, I've just
gone through a very difficult time, | mean, | have some really tough days still. And yet, that's not an excuse not to get
the job done, you know, you have to expect more of yourself. So that's, that’s the speed of the leader. And so there's
a, there’s a part of you that you will, you'll be in a perpetual state of being inadequate, and you have to be get used
to that all the growth, all growth, all growth is at the margin. Right. If you look at a tree, all the growth is at the
margin, the most frail, the most vulnerable, the little shoots that are growing out, but that's where all the growth is.
All your personal growth is going to be outside of your comfort zone. If you get comfortable, you have to you have
your fire alarm needs to be going off period you have to get you have to get very uncomfortable, you have to get
comfortable being uncomfortable. And when you find yourself comfortable, that should make you very
uncomfortable, because you're not growing. So | don't want to overstate that. But | do think it's a really, really
important point, there's a dynamic that you have to create between you and your operational support team. And
part of it is you not lording it over them or making excuses or shirking your responsibilities. But Stacy has one of her
core values is Extreme Ownership. And if you've dropped the ball you have to own it doesn't matter that you're the
owner of the boss. And if you're not pulling your weight, then you have to own that too. So if you want everybody on
the team has to be committed to excellence, my opinion.
&) Staci Gray 42:18

| think also another thing that we have recently re learned is that when you find those, those a players is protect
them. Because those are the people that are really going to be there. They're the second tier leaders for you. And
sometimes we try to develop everybody as leaders and there's some that just are going to rise up and be leaders and
there’s some that are just going to be okay being tactical executioner’s. And when those ones rise up, really, really
feed into them, encourage them, lead them, protect them, give them what they need, because they will give you
back tenfold, if you just show up for them in that way. Yeah, the

© Russ 42:59

first time when Stacey came to work, | didn't understand that concept. And | she was so strong, | just dumped on her
and dumped on her and dumped on her. And she was young really young and she didn't know her limits and she
didn't know her boundaries and she didn't know how to say no and she took it and took it and took it until it just
crushed her and burned her out was a very painful time in our relationship as father daughter made her tough. And
she learned a lot and | learned a lot through tough times tend to do that. Not that you ever you know, say Gee, | wish
| could do that again. But But there were some valuable lessons and all of that. So when she says protected, you
know, what does that mean? It means just because somebody's strong just because the horse is strong does it mean
you you load it up to the breaking point? It doesn't it you know, someone drops the ball, you don't say hey, this
person screwed up, can you fix it and always have them carrying somebody else's freight. You know, and then and |
think that goes part and parcel with this other thing is giving people permission to let you know, we call it red flag
yellow flag, you know, because otherwise, what you're gonna get as a white flag and they're gonna quit, they're
either gonna, like walk out the door quit, or they're gonna stay on the job quit. And that’s probably worse. Right? So
you need them to have the permission to put up the caution flag, hey, I'm starting to fry a little bit. And the red flag is
like Hey, guys, you know, I'm critical mass here. If you don't respond to me, there's going to be you know, something
bad's going to happen. And if they feel like that's a shine sign of weakness, or they're not going to be supported,
they're not going to that that warning isn't going to be met with compassion and support, then all you're going to get
is a white flag. And white flags are super expensive.

G) Staci Gray 44:42

Yes, and | think also | mean, | will at times put up my yellow flag, but | will even put up with my team and so by
leading by example saying Hey guys, I'm at capacity | need help it I'm leading by example, saying that they're
allowed to do it, too.

© Russ 45:00

Good stuff. Okay, so let's see, where are we at timewise, we got another 13 minutes on the budget, we don't need to

keep talking if we've covered everything, but we still got folks on that haven't asked anything. So Mark, you're here
you have anything.

A 45:16

| don't really, this has been very helpful though | do feel like | probably need to schedule a call with Stacey at some
point here. I'm just my my business, | know is not at a point yet where | need to put the team in place. But | know
CC - July 15, 2020 - Q&A Live Call on Business
Operations wi...

@ Thu, 10/7 6:00PM @56:45

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, business, syndication, syndicator, question, opportunity, stacy, deal, stacey, team, tool, person, helping, big, investors,

scale, money, talking, sweet spot, process

SPEAKERS

Russ, Janna Hubbs, Staci Gray

Russ 00:17

All right syndication mentoring club. This is Russ and we are here for another edition of our, | guess we'd call it ask
the mentors, we've got Stacey here with me. And we're going to be talking about business operations. You know,
running a syndication company is not just about hustling up deals, not just about hustling up money, and even
running your deals. But there’s the marketing, there's the outreach, there's the reporting, there’s a lot of moving parts.
And the challenge can be for those of us that are one man or one woman bands running around, trying to be all
things to all people, the details can become very overwhelming. And so there's this space in your existence when you
are working it out. And until you have the ballast, the scope, the scale, to be able to hire all the help you need, you've
got to be as efficient as you possibly can. And then that's one part of the process, then, as you work your way up
through that kind of development or evolution. And you learn how to operate your business at a certain level, some
of your competencies are going to be exposed, you're going to realize that you're not the best man or woman for the
job, there's gonna be certain things you absolutely hate doing, even though you know you might be good at them.
And a whole bunch of things that you're doing that you're you both hate and are no good at. And so the quicker you
can get a team and processes and, and systems organized to move all that off your plate, you can begin to organize
your business to scale. And ultimately, your mission as an entrepreneur, like our metaphor in the syndication seminar
is those pieces of the puzzle, putting all the pieces of the puzzle together in such a way that you can scale. Because
once the only limiting factor you have is adding investors and adding money and adding deals and running teams.
And that alone is a lot. But when you can do that at scale, you can have lots of people to help you with everything.
And so the awkward thing that Tom wheelwright talks all the time when he mentioned the cashflow quadrant, and
the idea of going from being an E to an S, which many of you have done, you've gone from being an employee to
become a self employed syndicator. The hardest transition is to go from syndicator to | mean, from, from self
employed to business owner where you the business runs itself. And that’s the that's what this segment is all about.
How do you get kind of from from being a one man or one woman band door, you have a team that's running
everything I'm going through that transition right now Robert, and I've been working on this for a while we tried it
once and crashed and burned horribly, | learned a lot of lessons and through an unfortunate set of circumstances
with my wife's illness decided we needed to do it again. Unfortunately, Stacey came on board and took the reins of
that project and made it happen is making it happen. And we decided that she brought a lot of value to the club,
and to get her involved in here as a mentor to share some of the things she’s been doing. But there's also people and
| see Jana hubs on the call that have you know, been scaling their business as well. So we're not here to be the only
smart people in the room. That would make the room very dull. So feel free to pipe up. But that's kind of my opening
JO

JO

19:48

Actually, we're just unmute herself. So Joe, if you have a question, | can go after you.

19:52

Yeah, actually, | do have a question. And | appreciate this because this is such great information. So | have | have
myself opportunity to do a syndication. And it's a development project. And it’s one of several in a small town, but
they have a lot of bigger corporations, and now they have the railroad coming through. And so there's a lot of
moving parts to it. But personally, | start off slow. My question is, so what the development side? Do you syndicate
and raise the money and do the development? Or do you do one or the other? Do you raise the money and then go
and find some way to develop the land? Because I'm looking at doing in one part of town, I'm going to do senior
apartments and possibly an Arielle, and another part of town doing some apartments, just regular apartments in
Fort different for plexes. Again, the town’s not very big, and it's so it's all going to go in phases. But they've come to
me, president of the bank has come to me, one of the prime real tours has come to me. So it’s all about phasing it

and that, but I've never done syndication before.

Russ 21:04

So yeah. Okay, so let me let me jump in Joe. So a couple things. One is this particular session is on business
operations. And this comes up all the time. Because entrepreneurs or I'm sorry, real estate investors are so deal
centric, they're just so so deal centric, they, they think of life, everything's a deal. And it's all about the deal, and how
do | do the deal? moving moving from that into where you're you're doing a business is about running people and
teams and operations and setting goals and creating culture, holding people accountable, managing cash flow,
technology, all that stuff. So that's really what this is about. The best place to ask those types of questions from the
syndication mentoring club would either be on the forum and get your other fellow members on board, or on a
community call mastermind call. That's what we do in the inner circle mastermind calls, you know, now, | mean, just
because you're here, and you're asked a question, | mean, if you can do you can do these deals any way you want. |
mean, you know, so if we've done deals where we we've, we've go in with a group of people, we went to one guy and
said, Hey, you know, we had zero cash. So we said, Hey, we, you know, we, you lend us some money, so that we can
make a good faith, earnest deposit on this piece of land, and then we'll go raise the money from a group of people
to buy the land, and when, when they take when they when they close on the contract will repay you, and we'll pay
you, you know, $20,000 on your 50. So it's a big win for you. And, you know, we're not talking about the money even
going hard. And so the guy's like, Well, sure. So he did, and then we got the land. And then once we had the land, you
know, we raised the money for the land, we told the investors, okay, we're gonna raise the money for the land. And
then at the end of the land deal, you can stay with us, or you can get out and we'll raise another group of people to
actually do the development. So during the land portion, we did all the design entitlement planning, figuring out
what we were going to do with the land, how is it going to get marketed, blah, blah, blah, and Robert knows the story
much better than | do. And so then the B group of investors came in, and they funded the actual development. And
then and then once the development was done, then you you either sell to another group of investors who are going
to hold it, if it's a buy and hold, or you sell it to a group of people who are going to, you know, end up being the end
consumer and everybody exits. So the takeout buyers, okay, so there's lots of different ways. There's no, there's no set
way how, how to do it. But you're definitely going to want to get some folks kind of coaching you up, who've been
there, done that. And the best way for you to do that in the club is on the forums, or in a community mastermind call,
because you got a lot of people with a lot of deal experience have done things a lot of different ways. But today is
just about, you know, how do | run my team? How do | organize my systems? How do | make sure that everything's
running if | decide to take a day off? So it makes sense.
that's going to come | fully expect that. And I've done it before, but I’ve just not done it for a syndication business. So
the comments today have been really great for me to hear this. And maybe what | need to do is start building out
that plan ahead of time. So | know what | want, when the time comes, and be ready for that. Because | know what |
want to do and what | want to stay involved in. | know what I'm good at. But it's sort of like the shoemakers, children
kind of thing. You know, | may be good at it, but I’m not going to be good at it for my own business. Those types of
things. So | don't think | have a question for today. But this has been eye opening to listen to you today.

Russ 46:23

Okay, well, | want to make sure you had the the opportunity. There's a lot of good stuff in the platform in terms of the
videos and some of the worksheets and things that you can begin to go through to get your mission vision values
clarified, begin to think about your core strategies and tactics for the key components of your business, how are you
going to attract customers and deals and in team members and things like that. And once you start to go through
that, and you say, okay, I've kind of got this down, you know, you have to figure out your niche, you have to figure out
what your business strategy is going to be what your unique selling proposition is going to be. You know, what Kyle
Wilson would call your secret sauce, you have to figure all that out. But when you get to the point was like, Okay, |
want to build a business that will execute. It's kind of like, if you've ever heard the story of how Thomas Edison
invented the phonograph, he literally conceived of it, and drew it on a piece of paper, and handed it to his r&d lab
with two words, build this. Okay. And that's kind of how | feel, | kind of feel like, Okay, I've got this ability to see things
coming before other people, I've got the ability to kind of anticipate what the market might want or need, and try to
find a unique angle. And | can typically come up with a strategy and maybe even some tactics that | think we could
execute on. But that is the end of my real skill set at the end of that, you know, to actually give birth to it and make it
happen, and even more so to make it scale. That's tougher. Now, of course, the thing that makes all that work is
revenue. When you have money coming in, as we say all the time, and How to Win Friends and Influence People
sales solves nearly every problem, right there. Everything you need, you can buy, if you know how to generate
revenue. Well, here's the thing, if you have a little bit of revenue, you have a little bit of seed capital, and you could
only spend money on one thing and you're not a great salesperson, then hire a great salesperson. | mean, one of the
advantages we have right now | mean you Stacey mentioned Tony Robbins earlier but what percentage of Tony
Robbins coaching staff that he just let go

Staci Gray 48:40
50% 50%

Russ 48:43

there is a lot of talent to beat Now I'm not saying you want to hire a Tony Robbins coach to be your your front man
or woman. But what | am saying is there's organizations all over right now that are jettison jettisoning some real
talent. And there are people that you're going to be able to catch like, you know, Stacy was involved in an
organization that was headed downhill, and she could see it and she was she was looking to jump ship, and she was
trying to find her next gig. And that just happened to coincide was when | had this big need, and we were able to
work out a deal and of course, it’s evolved. But like | said, | think it's worked out pretty well for both of us. But there's
a lot of that out there. So, right now | feel like we're in an environment of acceleration. And that's both good and
bad. Everything that was going to happen because of the wheels that had been put in motion, the megatrends if you
will, that was going to happen anyway. But it’s all happening faster. Everything is happening very, very quickly right
now. And so there's going to be a window of opportunity that opens up and it's going to open it’s going to close.
There's You know, | think the window of opportunity to be able to go grab an expensive financing, lock it in long term
that that's going to start to close here pretty soon. | think that there's people that have equity in properties and
it, of course, you know, we use Infusionsoft, you go to Infusionsoft and they have a list of preferred plugins and tools
and things and is like for calendar scheduling program, correct me if I'm wrong, use this. And you can go check and
see from actual Infusionsoft users who has had the best success with what tool? So I'm all about the concept of
automating some of these processes where it makes sense, then the business side of it says, Does it make sense for
certain people to be interacting with your calendar? So for example, with me, I'm a C level guy. And so when I'm
working on relationships, there strategic relationships with VIPs, | would never ask Robert Kiyosaki, or even Robert
Kiyosaki his assistant, or Peter Schiff, or any of those people to schedule time with me through a calendly app. Right?
So | have a person who does it. So it's not like | do it myself, because that's not efficient. But that’s another thing to
consider is not just tools that you're using, but who's using them from the forward facing accountably is a forward
facing tool. And you have to ask yourself, What image Am | projecting? What experience? Am | projecting? What am
| training this person, this user to expect from me? What am | saying about my brand and how | feel about them, by
having them go through this experience, and I’m not judging what you're doing, because | don't know we're saying
right or wrong. But I’m just saying there’s a thought process that you go through and kind of picking out the right tool
for the job, and then deciding if you have to revolve around something. When you find limitations, you got to make
sure you revolve around the main thing. And don't shift the orbit so that you've got a major thing trying to revolve
around a minor thing, right? Your major thing is your CRM, that's your central hub, your database, communication,
central calendly is just an input tool. And we've switched out different webform providers and different things from
time to time, because they didn’t. They didn't fit well with our main thing. So that’s what | have to say about that. If
that makes sense, Stace, I'm sure you have color, but that's my 27 and a half cents.

Staci Gray 29:37

Just back it up a little bit further. Before you even start integrating tools, you have to map out the flow. So these are
people that are already in your database, then knowing how capturing their contact information from calendly is
really not that important because you already have their contact information. If you're using it as a lead now magnet
or a first entry funnel, then that's different. So | think | don’t mean maybe you've already done this Jana, but
completely mapped out process map your funnel for what you're trying to accomplish. And then you put the tools in
after that. And maybe you did that. So | am not sure and you can chime in and let us know where you're at in that
process. Maybe you have completely mapped the funnel, and you clearly identified that Active Campaign and

calendly need to integrate. Or maybe you're not there yet.

Janna Hubbs 30:34

| don't think we're there yet. And | am still on a pretty steep learning curve with some of this. And my learning curve is
to understand enough about it to where | can delegate and oversee the process. And | think you are right on as far
as the funnel is one of my jobs today or tomorrow, because we've got a meeting with the intern per se, is to kind of
map out how do the different pieces fit together. So that | have a clear understanding, | had a pretty bad 30 minute
conversation with him on the phone last week at the end of last week to kind of map out what it is that we are trying
to do visually for him. And then also allow Randy to because Randy's thought process is much different than mine.
And which is very good. You know, we make a good team in that regard. But is to be able to get a clear vision so that
we can move fairly quickly through our integration processes. And that we understand that by doing XYZ, we end up
with ABC or whatever and, and | agree with you rest as far as scheduling meetings with certain people can't be
going through this, what we're trying to do is lead capture with people like in Montana, we've got In fact, we have a
phone call tomorrow regarding special needs housing, with people in Montana, we've got a seven bedroom house
and | mean things are moving in that direction, in quarter lane. And so as we are communicating and reaching out
personally to people that we're able to then attract and get more people on our list. | guess that’s probably not
worded correctly, but more people in our educational section to where we can, you know, expand our opportunities

for other people.
JO

values are. So then | strongly believe that in order to organize a business to scale culture is by far the most important
thing. Because if you don't have a convenient culture within your team, and also what you want to represent in terms
of building your brand in the market with your investors, you're going to be confusing your team, and you're going to
be confusing the market. And that's not scalable. So the first thing we do is just identify what their core values are,
what their purpose is, and how they will know if they're achieving that in the marketplace. And then we narrow it all
the way down to quarterly what we're going to focus on building a business, especially, you know, having been been
a part of the syndication mentoring club for so long, | find that a lot of the syndicators feel very overwhelmed with all
the things that they could possibly do in terms of different types of deals or different types of branding or outreach
opportunities, and really narrowing it down to what's in alignment for that specific syndicator is helpful because they
can then actually make progress on it. And then the OTS team is just holding them accountable to what we agreed
with the priorities for that quarter and pushing it forward based on all of our experience and all of our resources in
terms of you know, CRM experience, website experience, social media experience, so they don't have to go find all
the people to do it. We have it all because we do it. And it’s then it's all intertwined with exactly what it is for
syndicators. | answer your question

08:41

does Yeah, | was taking copious notes. Appreciate you explaining that. Well, we

Russ 08:45

are recording so you can always go back and listen again. But yeah, | mean, obviously gone through the process.
And of course, a big part of Stacy's philosophy in business has come from working with us. And you guys all know,
culture is so important. | mean, if you really think about what you're building, it's goodwill, that's the value of your
company. And every person who's everybody in your organization is a spokesperson, a representative, a brand
representative. And if you don't, if you don't really make sure that everybody that's out there that’s forward facing
especially, but even everybody that’s operating you know, behind the scenes, if they’re not all on board with your
mission, vision values, then it’s a vibe that people pick up and there's an incongruity and then schisms develop, and
they may not seem like much but the bigger your organization gets, you know, and we had that happen to us. We
brought in some people that were not culturally aligned good people, nice people, personal friends, good good folks.
But they didn’t look at the world the way we did. They didn't look at business the way we did and what happened is
as we got bigger the schisms got wider and pretty soon these little cracks became fissures and pretty soon big
chunks of the business were falling off, you know, it was just really bad and then we ran into two 1008 So, you know,
we're, | think, pretty obviously heading into a crisis, which is going to create gobs of opportunity, lots of talent is
going to be available, lots of deals are going to be available, and probably lots of capital is going to become
available as people become disenfranchised, and, you know, disappointed and discouraged and maybe distrusting
of Wall Street and some paper assets out there, they're going to be looking for real asset alternatives. And we have
an opportunity to offer that to people. But of course, to be able to do it at any level, we have to have our businesses
together our infrastructure, which is team systems, procedures, but it’s all on that if you go back to the tree, you
know, it's all with the root of the mission, vision values. And then the tree trunk is the, the tech, the legal, the financial
setup. And then you've got the three major branches you've got in onboarding investors, onboarding deals,
onboarding team members, and where they all come together. That's, that’s really what you're growing out is kind of
that base of those three branches. So okay, so anybody have any comments, you want to toss in on that before we
move on to the next question? And if you do, you have to move quickly, because I'm going to keep things moving
along.

Staci Gray 11:23
