JO

say, hey, you didn't tell me so it's arguably the single most important component of putting a deal together, you're
going to have whatever your you know, acquisition due diligence expenses are and that’s just going to vary
depending on what the deal is. And if you're a deal person, you ought to know what those numbers are, you know
better than any of us would, because it's your, it’s your space. If you don't know those numbers that whoever you're
investing with should be able to give you those numbers, but again, that's all going to come out of the deal. When
you're brand brand new. In creating your syndication business, you have your syndication business, not the deal but
your syndication business and your syndication business is kind of like overhead, right? That's going to get spread out
over all the deals. So if you look at yourself as like a little shopkeeper, and you're going to open up a store, you know
getting The store opened and putting in your counter and your cash register and blah, blah, blah, | mean, that’s all
overhead. And you're going to put a bunch of merchandise in to the store and do some transactions and the profit
on that flow is what's going to float your overhead. And so your deal flow and all these other deals that you're
putting together should be CIT, generating gross profits that are going to be contributing to your syndication
business, but you're gonna have startup expenses in your syndication business. candidly, startup expenses for your
syndication business are probably less than a start up for a deal. Because you don't have to put together a ppm you
know, which is a big expense, right, you're gonna have a couple $1,000 to form an entity, you're going to want to go
by your DNO and your, you know, insurance on your management entity, you're probably going to want to have three
entities, you know, and again, | don't want to get into the legal side of it in great detail. But typically, you're going to
have your holding company, that's going to hold the equity that you have in the deals, you're going to have your
management company that's going to be executing the, the the management and standing in the role of the
manager of all of these different project LLCs. And then you'll, you'll have each of the individual, you know, operating
LLCs, so your core business is going to be a holding company, and you're, and you're in your management company,
and then what | call your enterprise company, which is each of the individual LLCs. And those are those of your
deals. And again, I'm assuming you're doing individual transactional deals, as opposed to a fund, which is a different
animal. But yeah, | mean, your expenses are not going to be great. And then the books for that you set them up, it's
one and done. So it’s all infrastructure, you know, you have a little bit of recurring, and you're in your insurance and
filing expenses, and, you know, tax returns and, and bookkeeping. But you know, really, you have a lot less
accountability on that part of the business, because it’s you, right, just you don't have investors on that side of the
business, it's you, where you really want the top notch stuff happening in terms of the insurance and the accounting
is that the deal level and the deal pays for all of it. So this is why it’s such a great business, you know, take a little bit
of seed capital, and you got to you got to have profitable deals, right. If you don’t have profitable deals in it, then
then you're in trouble. But you know, | feel like if you've got 50 grand liquid, that you can you can use to get your
businesses started. That's enough to, to put your put your deal together, hire the help that you need, initially, and you
know, kind of get your core syndication business together. And then you know, you're going to reimburse whatever
the deal expenses are quickly upon the raise. And then over time, you're going to amortize your startup expenses
over however many deals you do. But really, you should be able to get that back. If you're doing any level of volume
within the first year. You know, if you're not doing deals and you know, | can't help you, right? You mean you got to go
you got to go raise money and do deals. That's That's your job. But but the actual expenses? Now, you know, of
course, those of you who are out there doing it, if you have different numbers or different experience pipe up, | mean,
I'm hardly the authority on it. So in our ad or Jana, you guys have any any thoughts on that in terms of a budget? If

you can remember back that far? Or Ben?

38:20

Yeah, | mean, I'll go before Danna, I'm, | don't even think it doesn't take that much. It really doesn't mean because
really, just to start when you're starting out, you don't need you do need to have reserves, but but you really need to
have me the more it's it’s significantly less the biggest expense is going to be your legal going in. | mean, so, you
know, | mean, you could fix that you start the whole thing with and really only half of the legal upfront, because
they'll or you know, depends on who you work with, but they could potentially if it’s let's say it's like, you know,
metals. If | took a couple 100,000 and bought precious metal, | may have to liquidate at a time. A below cost. But if
but if the float is long term, and my long term bet is denominated in dollars, precious metals are going to continue to
go up or worded the other way over the long term that the dollar is going to continue to fall against precious metals.
Maybe that's a risk I'm willing to take, right. And as long as all that's in your disclosure documents, you explain to
people this is my investment philosophy. This is my theory, here's my advisors and expertise. This is what I'm going to
do and they buy off on it, then then then you're okay, no guarantee it’s going to work right because the markets are
volatile. But there are going to be people out there that would buy off on that philosophy, | think so | don't know if
that answered the question. Yeah,

© Ben 51:35

it does. And | think the last piece to that question is | would imagine you would have a agreement with somebody

that's like a Citadel or somebody that would be institutional storage.

© Russ 51:46

Yeah, | wouldn't hold them | wouldn't hold the the the metal in a safe deposit box. | wouldn't own it as a paper claim
like in an ETF even though there's less friction, you know, transactional expense, if you're going to do it and the
people who are going to buy often that are going to want the physical so | keep it in you know, like an independent
third party like Brinks in Salt Lake City or something. But Dana samisen in the silver series actually offered | think if
you send an email to storage,

@) Staci Gray 52:17

real estate guys radio

© Russ 52:19

storage list at Real Estate guys radio.com. Dana has a list of storage facilities that he’s vetted and feels good about.
But you'd keep it there, you know, guarded, insured, and outside the financial system, and it’s not unallocated

meaning it's not, it’s not gold, it’s intermixed with other people’s ownership, and you have a claim that somebody
owes it to you, but it’s actually sequestered vaulted, your gold the same, the same metal you put in the vault is the
same metal, you're going to pull out. If the only people who are going to leverage it would be you. If you pledged it to
somebody, what you could always do, that’s another way to do it. You know, you can accumulate, | look at real
estate, | mean, look at precious metals on my balance sheet, like equity in real estate, but a better form of it, right? If
| can take the equity of the real estate and converted into precious metals, it's, it's a question from the liability of the
property, it’s more liquid, | can pledge it as collateral more easily without having to qualify. And that way | can own
all the upside in dollars of owning the metal but still have the working capital of the cash if | am using it in such a
way that the arbitrage on the cost of borrow, versus the yield on the investment makes sense. No different than
borrowing money out of a property, but at least it’s safe from the property. It's hard to hide equity in a property very
hard. Because the property's there and the title and the encumbrances are there. Anybody can look at what it's
worth exactly where it is what you owe, they can see the equity. So | want to try to hide that or protected as much as
| can. in precious metals is a way along with you know, liens and encumbrances equity stripping, if you will, is another
way to do that is a way to you know, kind of ward off predators who are just looking for low hanging fruit. And | think
that in the environment we're headed into, you might get some of that. So, anyway. Okay, great. So, we are at the
top of our hour, | think we've covered anything but Stacy, do you have any closing thoughts or comments? No. Okay,
well, you know, just the key, ladies and gentlemen, is real world, right? If you are coming to these sessions with real
world questions, things that you're struggling with, it helps Robert and | and Stacy and the team all understand our
avatar, all of you, so that we can bring in people create content, research things, bring in subject matter experts,
whatever we have to do to support you, in your efforts in the real world. Take advantage of the community calls, take
advantage of the forums. Obviously we're a tiny community. We're working on some things in fact, that's my number
one right now we're going to pump up the upcoming secrets of successful syndication. We're going to be automating
the funnel so that people can get in On boarded into the club without having to wait for these biannual events,
going to turn those bi annual events into a bi annual or semi annual anyway twice a year is really, you know,
networking opportunities, community opportunities, you know, just so so appreciate those of you that are engaging
in the community love that keep doing it, don't get frustrated, if it’s not that vibrant yet. Just keep being the catalyst,
keep being the yeast, make it grow, we're going to do our part to get more people in, we're going to give you guys
tools to do that. The only other thing I'll say is take advantage of this crisis investing series that you've got, you know,
we've got over 10,000 views right now on the Peter Schiff video, he’s the hot topic. But hopefully it's going to continue
to grow. But there's brand Association there, obviously, you guys are associated with us, we're associated with all of
them. So through the associative property of association, you, you have some brand credibility, and you can share
the videos with people, they're totally free. And then you can have conversations with them. It opens up like, Hey, you
know, these guys that | work with my mentors in my syndication business, just did this great interview with Peter
shifts already got 10,000 views, you know, why don't you take a look at it, and then I'll, let's have a conversation,
right? It gives you, it gives you a way to center people on the subject matter at hand. So look at the videos and ask
yourself two questions. Number one is, you know, what are these people saying? And how do my, my offerings help
people mitigate the risks that they foresee? Right? And then number two is, how can | use this content, to engage
people in conversations to get them to talk about these issues, and when they express concerns, when they agree,
yeah, that's a concern, then you, you already have an idea how the features of your offering offer them the benefit of
mitigating the risks that have been raised not by you a sales pitch, but by a third party, qualified expert. Okay, so it's
a very powerful tool, we're going to be talking about it tonight, Ed on the Hot Topic call. Because | think that my
concern is that you guys, too many of you aren't realizing the asset that you have and aren't using it. And you know,
its shelf life is not going to be long, you know, it lasts a little while, but if you're not taking advantage of it’s going to
come and go. But you can do this all the time. But the difference is, instead of just pulling some random video, which
you can do, and using a news clipping and just pulling it off. In this case, you know, it actually builds you a little bit
more, because you have a direct personal relationship with Robert and | and we're featured on it so that that that
can help you a little bit. And of course, you know, in our line, self interest, everybody that you show it to grows our
audience and just reinforces the brand. And | think that's good for all of us, too. So anyway, ladies and gentlemen,
thank you so much for your time and attention. That wraps up today's session. We'll do it again next month. But you
know, as you go along, keep sending those questions in, and Stacy will accumulate them in her team and then we
will deal with them when we do the next session. Okay. Thank you guys. All right. Thanks, everybody. We'll see you

next time.
Oo
()

16:24
hopefully that | get 30 minutes, I'm just saying.

® Russ 16:29

Oo
()

Okay, so what else? Maybe else got a question?

16:32

So, yeah, especially, especially relevant right now, because everybody's on has more time to be on social media. |
wanted to ask some questions on how to manage vas. With social media, let's say even | mean, I've never, I'm not a
big social media person, | don't really do LinkedIn or Facebook. And | wanted to ask, and | wanted to, essentially, I'm
delegating that | wanted to delegate that, yeah, VA, because it's not | have no interest whatsoever in doing it. And
obviously, it's a good way to build to build relationships and whatnot. So some, basically just some, | guess, some tips
on how to manage a VA with your social media, what to what to get what to empower them with what not to, |
mean, obviously, I'm gonna have to be more involved in it to some degree, obviously, because | don't want to give
them car shares, or whatever. So So can you speak to that a little bit?

Russ 17:26

Yeah, absolutely. Great question. And in fact, | just did a call this morning. So I'll tell you from my side of it, and again,
you know, it’s kind of top down. And then Stacy will give you the real answer from the way it works in the real world
in the weeds. Because Stacy really runs it, it started for me, when we were doing a promotion with rich dad and rich
dad decided that they were going to point at our Facebook page, there's only one small problem with that we didn't
have one. So | called Stacy. I'm like, Oh my god, Cece, we need a Facebook page. And so she put it together. And |
remember we had like, you know, five likes, and then it got to be 20 likes. And then | was really thrilled when we got
to three figures and we were 121 likes and of course now we're at 15,000. And we've kind of plateaued a little bit, but
we have obviously on our if you're following us, you know that we're putting a greater emphasis on our social media
presence. And to your point, Ed, |, Robert and | are big fans of getting on there and doing a lot of engagement. We
watched bigger pockets explode. And we saw the way they were doing that and we asked ourselves, are we willing to
do what they're doing to be in that space? And we both decided no, we weren't we like doing our live events, we'd like
the more human interaction. We didn't like being married to our devices 24 seven and we certainly weren't going to
walk around you know, with our holding our phones at arm's length narrating you know, where what we had for
breakfast and who we're talking to and and all that so just you know, not putting it down. It’s just not for us. You
know, guys like Gary Vee, they're machines, they build big followings. God bless them. So anyway, here's what | think
is important. And what | do with the the team, so we have a singular email address that | use, that goes to all the
people who are on the messaging team, the people who are forward facing, and there's a team of people who were
out there representing our brand on YouTube, on my LinkedIn, on my Facebook on the real estate guys, LinkedIn, all
the different outlets, | don't even know all the outlets. Apparently we have an Instagram, it's doing well. I've never

seen it. So you know, I'm right there in that camp with you. So what | communicate to them, is we do a once a week
meeting. It's called our mark comm meeting. And | talk about what's on my mind, and the things that | think we
should be talking about. And that's number one. Number two, which is really number one is | don’t worry about
teaching them what to say. And they're experimenting and they're finding out what people like so they’re kind of
coaching me up on what people are responding to what people like, and kind of what the hot thing is, you know, in a
space that | don't live in. But with that said, | teach them the, the attitude. So there’s an old proverb that says, out of
the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. And so | don't worry about scripts, | don’t worry about keywords or
have to have someone who really understands your business model, your positioning your brand, your values, put it
into a voice and style guide, and then work with them over time to make sure that they're congruent with what's
happening in your real world offline.

Russ 25:50

And | think the important point, and | want to emphasize it is that you learn together because you just like when you
when you know, and you know this from, you know, the New Orleans investment conference, but I'm a big fan of
learning your messaging by going and getting in a lot of conversations. And so trade shows are a great place to do
that, because you go into a target rich environment where there's all kinds of thought leaders sharing ideas. And so
it's easy to get in conversations with complete strangers pivot off something that somebody said in the front of the
room, that you know that they're interested to a degree in the subject matter, they wouldn't have been in the room
and ask them what they think. And then you get into a conversation, you start practicing presenting ideas or
concepts or finding out what they're curious about, and you learn how to speak to your avatar, what your social
media people are going to be having that same, that same experience with the people in your social networks, and
they are going to be coaching you on what works and what to say. So you have to know your brand promise and
your spirit like | talked about, but it you are definitely not going to be the person responsible for telling them at a
tactical level, what to do, or how it works, they're actually going to be teaching you and to Stacy's point, you know,
my job is to just, you know, come up with my thoughts, | spend, you know, an hour to two hours a day journaling and
reading so that | have thoughts and I've learned how to kind of slow my mind down and get these gut feelings that |
have and put them into words that | can then articulate on the radio on video and writing, and of course, to the team
so that they can then carry those torches forward, if you will. And so you have to make those investments in that and
then you know, find ways to share that information with them. What | do is also when | do these little coaching calls
with them, and then with me, | think it’s a two way dialogue, we record them. And then that way they can go back
and reference them and | can be in the moment because sometimes you know, you just start riffing and all sudden,
all this brilliance comes out of your mouth, like Wow, | didn’t even know that was in there. And it’s gone, it's lost to the
wind, if you didn't capture it, there’s just no reason with today's technology that you literally shouldn't record
everything. As long as you have tight controls on how that gets disseminated, I'm very clear to the team, when we do
a recording, if that recording is ever meant for public consumption or not most of time, you know, know, the stuff
they pivot off of, or things that | sit in the studio and do you know overtly whether it’s radio video, or, or what | write.
So you know, because you're not necessarily on in media like | am, you know, you still if you're going to be part of
carrying your brand message forward. And especially in a virtual world, in a digital world, you're kind of gonna have
to act like a little bit like a media personality, at least in terms of content preparation, and creation, and then let your
team you know, to slice and dice it up and put bits and pieces out there. And then the only other component to it is
to remember that the you know, your teams in the syndication business have got to be keenly aware of what they
can and can't say with respect to conditioning, the market solicitation. Talking about live deals or anything that
could somehow compromise, you know, your your exemptions, you know, in your offerings. And this is why Another
thing | think that's helpful is if you're going to, you know, work with a marketing team, just like working with an
attorney, you want somebody that really, really knows the syndication space. You know, just like if | do social media
and bringing people their social media, | mean, if they're already listening to shows like ours, or if they're already
doing this kind of work for other brands, that's a leg up, right if | have to bring in somebody stone called who's got
zero interest in the subject matter and ask them to pay attention to it and they're just not going to perform at the
same level. So you want to work with people who, who you know, have a little bit of experience in the syndication
space. That's true on the bookkeeping side. And it’s true on the mark comm side because this is a highly regulated
business and it's easy to step in it when you're putting stuff out there digitally, it lives forever, which means it could
become empty. someday. And I’m not necessarily even saying it could be an investor lawsuit, it could be just a
compliance issue. And it could be perfectly innocent, and you have happy investors and successful deals, and you
still get your hand slapped. So you know, we talk about that a lot on the legal side with Mauricio. And if, when in
know, and | want to know how to structure payment and get them out of their lane for a minute, because
everybody's in their own lanes, everybody's entrepreneurs, now it seems like, and so managing the fact that | want
that person in the wings when | need them, right, just in time management, right. And also, when it comes to an
attorney, how to have an attorney there without retaining them, and things like that, you know,

Russ 12:14

so let me talk to that a little bit. Because | think that, you know, one of the skill sets | have is, is building something
out of nothing. And just using my hustle, and the ability to create strategic relationships. And so you know, what |,
what I'm not great at is building the big, you know, 100 million dollar, your company haven't figured out how to do
that yet, but I'm pretty good at going from zero up to several million dollars, and then that, you know, a few times. So
| think that ultimately, you know, to get somebody who's talented to get their attention, you're going to have to give
them what they need. And it’s not always money, sometimes they need something else, sometimes they need a
relationship, sometimes they need you on tap, just like you want them on tap. And that's good enough. Sometimes
your marketing can dovetail into supporting them, and you become a great lead generator for them. And because of
that, they're loyal to you. But you know, when when it comes to looking for deals, in fact, | have a buddy of mine that
watched our Facebook Live, and | love this guy's close personal friend, we've known each other forever. And he hit
me up and goes, Hey, you know, | sent a friend over to get some precious metals from, you know, Dana, and felt like
the price was a little high. And so | said, Well, you know, bring it to Dana’s attention, and I'm sure Danny wants to be
competitive. | said, but you know, be careful, because you know, it's like being in in real estate. You know, if you're
running around beating people up for their commissions, you're going to go down to the bottom of the list. And what
| said on the Facebook Live, what | said in the silver series, and what | say all the time is I'm always looking for a way
to give somebody what they need and want so | can be at the top of their list. And so this is sales one on one. So it's
not just money. But But Karen, what I'm saying is in for everybody is that a strategic relationship is just like raising
money, it's a sale. So you're going to have a conversation with someone and you're going to ask them about their
their vision for their business and what works for them and what they're struggling with. And if some Fairy
Godmother can come along and sprinkle fairy dust on them, and improve their business in a way that would have
the most impact, what does that look like and why. And when you learn how to ask those questions, and they're
going to tell you things. Now, there’s no guarantee that what comes out of their mouth is something you're going to
be able to help them with. But you take notes and if it is something you can help them with and you say, hey, let me
help you with that. And then you become valuable to that person. And | have another saying that | think is really
important. It was what the thesis of my very first presentation at Robert Helms seminar way back in 2001. And what |
said was, people will be loyal to you in direct proportion to the amount of personal and professional growth they
experienced as a direct result of your involvement in their life. That's the power of a mentor. We all have skill sets. |
mean, you just got done Karen saying that you have certain skill sets are there people out there who you need on
your team who need your skill set. And so maybe when you can't write the fat check, you can share ideas, you can
share time, you might have a deep library, you may have a, you know, a good database of, you know, | used to call it
a power Rolodex, | suppose that's really dating me. But you get the idea. There's things that you can bring into play
to help people and if they are feeling that you are helping them advance their business and their goals, they're going
to be loyal to you, they're going to be more likely to respond to you, when you call, ultimately, you know, what |
always tried to do is sell a big vision. Because if people feel like, Hey, I'm going places, and if you get on board, this
train and are loyal to me, I’m going to pull you along, because I'm a determined guy, I'm gonna get it done, | got a
big vision, | got a great work ethic, got a decent track record, | got a great network, I'm just going to go make it
happen. And if you're on board with me, then good things are gonna happen to you too. And sometimes just the
promise of that is good enough. Of course, over time, you actually have to start to show some of that or people think
you're all talking no walk. But But those are all tools in terms of getting people on board, ultimately, you know,
people just have to benefit. And you have to get their attention. You are competing for the time and attention. Great
people are in high demand, as I'm sure you will know. So anyway, that's you know, a lot of it’s because | have a lot of
opinions on that. But
And you guys would probably do that in Investor Relations and deal flow, maybe deal vetting and whatever. But then
you got to have that one person, that right hand person, your chief operating officer, your President, whoever that
person is, that’s going to run your team on the beginning, you may not have that person, | totally get it. But when |
did my lockdown in Salt Lake City with Gary Keller's book, the one thing, the one thing that | needed to do was
design and build a team. And the one thing | needed to do to get that done was to find the one person who could
help me do that, because | knew | wasn't up to the job. And fortunately, Stacy came along at the right time for me,
and hopefully the right time for her and stepped into that role and built the team. So that that's, that’s number one. |
think the second thing is, is make sure that whatever you're doing, you're working closely with your accountant, to
make sure that you're not inadvertently classifying somebody as a virtual contractor or an independent contractor,
when in fact, they're, they're gonna get tapped as an employee. Remember, everything you do in the syndication
business, you have to have a higher level of diligence and attention to the accounting, finance, legal insurance, a lot
of the stuff that we get sloppy with in other businesses or things that we get sloppy with in our own personal lives,
you have to have a higher level of attention to that stuff. So in addition to having a great operations person, | think
it's really important that you have a great Finance and Administration person. So if you look at a typical business
organization organization, you have the owners, which is the shareholders in this case, they're going to be your
investors. And then you have the board of directors. And that's largely you, unless you maybe have some people that
sit in an advisory capacity either depending on how you set up your operating agreement. Most of the time, they
don't have a vote, they really don't have authority, but you they have your ear and they kind of represent your
investor group. Roberts a fan of doing that. We don't always do it. And you don't have to do it certainly not required,
but it's not a bad idea just so that you don't end up in this kind of echo chamber of your own mind and you're not
really listening to what your investors are interested in and thinking about and perceiving also gives you a little bit of
cover so talk to him or ratio or your securities attorneys kind of about how that works, but the next level down From
that, from the Board of Directors is your executive team and the CEO sits at the top of the executive team. And
they've got three basic departments, you've got your sales and marketing, and your case would be Investor Relations,
fundraising, brand, building, customer service, all that stuff, then you're going to have your operations, which in your
case is finding, vetting, managing deals. And then you're going to have your finance and administration function,
which is going to keep track of all the accounting, manage the technology, manage the legal manage the insurance.
And it's a lot, it's a lot. And that's why I'm a big fan of syndication, because, you know, you're going to have overhead
and you want good quality people in those sea level seats, in the beginning here in all of them. So the first order of
business is raise a bunch of money, so that you can afford based on your your fees, whether it’s your promote to pay
for your marketing team, or it's your management fee to pay for your executive team. And in the beginning, you
personally might not make that much money because you're feeding your entire team to get to that critical mass.
But once you get there, and it's up and running, now you've got the scale, and you've got the infrastructure, I'm sorry,
to be able to scale. And that's the key is organizing your business in such a way that it will scale. And that's where a
lot of entrepreneurs get stuck small, and the business consumes them. This is what Michael Gerber writes about in
the E myth, if you've not read that book, read it, it's a great place to start. And then you add to it other things like Jim
Collins Good to Great and Gary Keller's The one thing, and then you know, the books that we've talked about before,
like traction and scaling up that talk a little bit about organizing to scale, which, of course, is what Stacy's specialty
is. So anyway, so once once you kind of have that picture in your mind, | always say that when you have clarity of
vision, strategy, and tactics become evident. And so then you, you want to be able to, once you have that clarity of
vision, then you stay focused on that vision of what you're building, and then you surround yourself with people who
are going to help you build it. Okay, so that's a little bit of theory, a little bit of philosophy, a little bit of kind of the
vision, the high level part. And then the important thing is, is then to get the right people on the bus. So again, go go
read Jim Collins book, Good to Great. And he talks about that concept of getting the right people on the bus in the
right seats, doing the right thing. In the platform, we did a video where we talked about the sweet spot where you're
putting people in a position where they're doing things that need to be done, that they're good at, and that they're
passionate about doing. And if you find that you can take a list of responsibilities and put them in that sweet spot for
somebody, that person is going to get up every day, work hard, enjoy their work, and do a good job for you. And so

sometimes it doesn't always fit neatly into a little organizational chart, and you kind of switch things around. And
JO

$10,000 for the legal they may only asking for five up front and then five when the deal closes. So, or when you when
you do the raise, right, so it’s not it’s not all that much. | mean, that's as far as like starting a business goes, it's less
than anything | can think of, um, yeah, |

Russ 39:08

mean, it's great, because part of it, it depends on what you have to work with already, right? | mean, you know, so
you're gonna, you're probably gonna want to have a website, a decent looking website that’s credible, that'll take a
little bit of time and money, you know, you're gonna have to come up with a brand and, you know, phone number
and just all the basic infrastructure if you get into the business planning module, and there's a big 26 page document
where you if you go through that, and answer those questions, you'd have to answer them all to start just, you know,
just know that as you're building your business, you're going to have to deal with all of those things at some point.
But the checklist to get started is, is pretty simple. You know, you need you need a you need an online presence. You
probably don't even need a physical presence, but you might want to go rent an executive office or something. So if
somebody Google's your address, you know, you're not working out of a UPS Store. But other than that, | mean,
there's just not that much. That's why this is such a fabulous fabulous business to get didn t was just, you know, I'm
amazed more people don't do it. Okay, good.

40:05

Add on really quick. | mean, | didn't do it with a website or anything. So you can do it. It depends on how much you
want to put in. But you know, it can be very, very minimal.

Russ 40:15
Okay, good. All right. Anybody else question or comment on that tag on anything

Staci Gray 40:22

can work for

Janna Hubbs 40:23

us, we've had several different syndications. And each one of them have been different. Some of them have been
very, very small amount 5000 reserved initial startup, we've always had a contingency, just in case something doesn't
quite go right. Because Murphy's Law seems to always kick in no matter how much planning we do. And so Randy
and | are constantly looking at where if something's not quite going, right, how do we either restructure or how do we
deal with that? What do we need to back off on whether it’s the website, whether it’s, whatever it is, we'll we'll
constantly be looking at all of the different structures that we have in place, and I'm constantly feeding him numbers
or looking at the bookkeeper and saying, you know, what do we need to do so. And then it depends on how long the
syndication goes, and whether or not you need to, one needs to put money in or you're going to ask investors for
money. | mean, there's a whole bunch of stuff that needs to happen there. And, and so you just have to kind of be
prepared for that.
WY Russ 41:31

JO

Well, | do think that, you know, every business person needs to be hyper attentive to cash flow. And so you run your
syndication business as a separate business from the deal. Right, you have to be attentive to both, but your
syndication business is its own animal. And so it’s customers, if you will, or the individual deals, and it's drawing fees
from those deals, whether it’s capital raise fees, what we call a promote, which is cash flow, when you bring the
money in, that's why | like it, because it helps you pay the bills at the beginning, you don’t want to dip heavily into
that because it builds distrust, but | think it's sellable. To explain to somebody the responsibility of doing that, the The
next thing is to have whatever ongoing management fee you have, so that you have enough money to pay the
people to manage the project to have completion. And then of course, the big payoff is at the back end, you know,
when you get your profit sharing, and depending on how you structure your deal, and so those are your revenue
sources that are coming out of your individual deals and feeding your syndication business, then you have to
manage your syndication business. So you always have to know where your, your short path to revenue is just
managing that cash flow. And so always be aware of what you have to sell and always have something to sell, you
should always have a deal out there that you can be selling. And if you say well, | can't find any good deals and go
find somebody who does have a good deal and fund their deal. What's important is that you're continually raising
money, you're continually servicing the needs of your investors who have capital they need to put to work. If you look
at your investors as merely fuel or food to feed you and your machinery, then you're looking at it backwards, you
need to look at it like you are there to feed their need for return on their capital, which is ever present. It's not just
there, when you have a deal, it's always there. And if you don't feed it, they're gonna go someplace else to get fed.
And that just makes maintaining the relationship that much more complicated, somebody's got an itch, and you
can't scratch it, it doesn't go away, they're going to keep you know, looking until somebody scratches that itch. So
always be attentive to that. So | think that the key is when you're in the syndication business, you are in the business
of raising money, that’s your job, you however you get it done you so I'm not a salesperson, then hire a great
salesperson and support them and lead them. If you're good at it, then do that. And don't get sucked into trying to
be an operator. If you're no good at it, go find people that are great operators and fund them if you're good at both,
and just make sure you're well supported, well organized and hyper discipline. But don't don't toggle back and forth,
right. You're constantly looking for money and you are constantly looking for deals and those two things are going
on all the time. And everything that you're the machinery that you're putting in place should be feeding both of those
conveyor belts that are coming in. And then ultimately, you have to have some mechanism by which you're bringing
people on board. Because if you grow these two things, and you don't grow your team, then the business is going to
swallow you because you are the team No matter how much money you make, there's still only 24 hours in the day
on this you magnify time through other people. And so that's a huge part of it. That's what organizing your business
to scale is all about. And it's not about you mean the beginning. Yeah, you have to become more efficient, leverage
what you do well, but ultimately, it's about building a business that runs without you in it at all. Just all based on your
ideas, your relationships and the fact that you own it going from s To be in the Kiyosaki cashflow quadrant. Okay. All
right. So any other questions on operations before we jump into the juicy topic that Ben Dickey has brought to the
party? Thanks, guys.

45:12
Yeah, thank you. That's great.

Russ 45:14

Okay. All right. Okay, so we're gonna take the last 10 minutes that we've gotten, hopefully, we'll be able to do this. So
Ben, go ahead and ask your question.
CC - August 12, 2020 - Q&A LIVE Call on Business
Operations ...

@ Tue, 9/28.9:47PM @ 58:25

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, deal, business, syndication, stacy, brand, precious metals, question, talking, call, investors, person, real estate, put, team,

building, money, run, operations, numbers

SPEAKERS

Ben, Russ, Scott Florida, Janna Hubbs, Staci Gray

) Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ. And we're back for another edition of Ask the mentors and today we're
gonna be talking about business operations. It's August 2020, we've got a good group of people got some questions.
And so Stacy and | are here to do the best we can to provide some answers and obviously pull some information
because everybody's out there operating. And we're all learning together, which is the whole point of the club and
the whole point of getting together and doing these sessions. So with that, | think I'll just open it up, who's who's got
a specific question that they came to the party and wants to get answered? And don't be shy, get it out there quick. |

hate dead air, as inner circle, well knows. Hi, this

00:58

is Karen. Um, | have a question about, you know, virtual teams, and how to manage them. And especially if they're

JO

professionals, I'm not just assistance or Well, those aren't just but you know, those are typically what people think of
when they think of virtual teams, they think of assistance and people who answer your phone, but then, you know, |

need a virtual contract, or | need a virtual attorney, you know, for my team, and have them be on my team without

necessarily paying anything to have them there. Does that make sense? Yep. Yep,

© Russ 01:38

it's a great, it's a great question. So | will kick it off, Stacy, | know will have a lot to say on it, and probably a lot more
useful than what | have to say. So I'm going to kind of hit it from the high level and kind of from the strategic, like
CEO type type seat. The first thing is, is | had to learn, and I've learned that, for the most part, you can’t have too
many people that you are directly interfacing with, | think the kind of the rule of thumb that I've read in most
management books is about six, | can't even handle that many, | can only handle a very small number of people.
Part of that is because I'm actively engaged in in Korea, you know, I'm, I'm the product to because you know, I'm
writing and I'm, I'm working so I'm doing tactical work. So I'm not just sitting in the CEO seat. So that limits my
capacity to to be kind of a team leader. So Stacy and | kind of have this partnership where | do the visionary work.
And | worry about the strategic part, | have a couple of seats on the bus | sit in for content creation and whatnot.
talking points, | want them to get my spirit. If if they get the spirit of the brand, then | can trust them that when they
respond, they're going to reflect the spirit of the brand properly, with whatever words they choose with whatever
topic that they're talking about. And of course, I'm watching and | see things. So if | see something where they step
out of bounds, | give you an example. We have a guy who's working with us who is helping to promote our, our
YouTube channel, and we made a mistake is my fault. Because | didn't realize that he was going to be involved in the,
in some of the messaging side, and he was retitling, the episodes in the silver series. And in the third episode, he titled
it, why you should invest in silver? Well, if you follow us, we never tell anybody what they should do. Because we don't
position ourselves as gurus we never tell people especially you should invest in anything you may want to consider
real estate is arguably the best, you know, this is a viewpoint we've heard, this is what we think and why. You know,
there's two sides to every argument. So Robert and | are positioned as people who are curious, who are not trying to
be gurus, or the smartest guys in the room, but are very well connected, who study who attend conferences, who
have conversations with people, that’s our brand. That's who we are, that's our spirit. And then we're all about
abundance. We're all about developing people. We certainly aren’t ashamed of our monetization, but we don't lead
with it. You see what I'm saying? So | make sure they understand that spirit. And if they understand that, then when
they message, they're going to be consistent. So obviously, that puts it on you to make sure you understand who you
are. What is your brand feel like? What is your brand supposed to feel like? Because how you communicate how you
present yourself remember in the build your brand slide from secrets of successful syndication, the first one is
presentation. How do you show up? What do you look like? What do you sound like? Are you can grew it across all
platforms? when people meet you? Is it the same you that they saw on video or they saw on social media? Or do you
look completely different? Right, you know, we just got done doing some work on your bio Ed. And, you know, it was it
was a little Wall Street ish, which is part of your background. But when people get to know you, you're like one of the
most personable people around. So | felt, it’s just my opinion doesn't make me right, that it was a little bit in
congruent, it was going to be a gap, and people are going to go, this is not what | was expecting. Right. And in this
business, you don't want surprises. So | think that it’s important to communicate to the team, kind of who you are,
what your brand promises, what your spirit your mission vision values are all about. And then watch them closely and
give them feedback with regular touch points, and guide them until you feel that more often than not, they're doing
it right and you'd like the way it feels, and then you can let them run. Okay, so that that's my side of it. Now from a

practical standpoint, Stacy's managing people on a daily basis, | only talked to him once a week. So space.

Staci Gray 23:26

So | will two things we take what he has talked about conceptually, and it gets converted into a voice and style
guide. So for every single brand that we have, there's a voice and style guide so that each brand can be congruent
with with what the messaging is. So we have for the real estate guys we have for all of the OTS clients that we run
their social media for. So there's a clear voice and style guide. These are the things we say these are the things we
don't say these is where we put a trademark, this is what we italicize. It's very specific about how we what our brand
messaging is. The real estate guys obviously have kind of a tongue in cheek personality. So if things go sideways, we
goofy about it. versus being stuffy and institutional, we're really playful. So the team knows that so you can hire
somebody, very inexpensive to do it. The challenge and I've tried to do this the challenge with doing that is they
don't they don't invest in thinking the way you think. So you need to get somebody if you really want to delegate it.
Someone who's going to think how you think who understands your business, to some degree, understands the brand
that you're trying to build the positioning that you want in the marketplace, who the key influencer influencers are
influencers are in your marketplace so that they can go build relationships with those social channels on line since
most things are online, right. So you may be going to a real estate guy's event or BiggerPockets events. Brad some
rock event or Gene greeno event or something, well, if you're going to delegate social, you're going to want that
same engagement happening online. And so those people, whoever you're having do, it needs to understand kind of
a little bit the type of relationship you have with those people, how you interact with them, so that they can be
congruent as to Ross's point, you're building your brand. So you could just put content out there. But that’s not the
way the algorithms work on social media. So you really have to create engagement. And in order to do that, you
Ben 45:21

Sure, absolutely. Thanks, when | know one syndicator, that is doing like a fund where they're doing precious metals
and something else. However, as we're structuring our deal, I'm exploring the idea of putting in working capital into or
capital reserves into like precious metals, as opposed to just storing cash. And | just was curious if you knew of
anybody doing that, and any pros cons, tips, tricks that you might have, on that, that topic?

Russ 45:52

Okay, well, | don't know anybody that is doing it. If | was running a fund today, probably would be on my list
depending on what's going on in the market. But let me let me talk about kind of the pros and cons, in an
environment where the marketplace and you believe there are real reasons to be concerned about the long term
viability of the financial system and the dollar in particular, and | think there's plausible reasons to be concerned
about that is an imminent? | don't know, | mean, you know, Hemingway's old quote, you know, how did you go
bankrupt? Well, kind of slowly at first, and then all at once, right? You know, how did the dollar collapse? Well, kind of
slowly at first, and then all at once, right? So we do kind of want to be ready for that is the risk that you take to do
that worth it depends. Because it’s effectively you're taking currency risk, it's an exchange rate, if you just look at
precious metals as an alternative currency, then you run the same risk than if you said, Hey, | think the dollar is going
to crash, and I'm going to put it in euros, or I'm going to put it in yen. If you get that wrong, when you need to make
the conversion back into the currency that you're actually going to use to do the deal, you could be on the losing end
of it. So you know, in terms of legal and I'm not a lawyer, so I'm not giving you legal advice. But you know, obviously,
if you're going to do something like that, you need to disclose it, and let people know that this is part of your, your
philosophy, and they've got to buy in on it. And | think you've got to convince them that the philosophy makes sense.
But you also have to convince them that whoever's making the strategic decision about how much when and how is
qualified to have an opinion. And so if you don't feel like you're that person, then you stick somebody on your
advisory board. That is, you know, if you can find someone like that, like if it were me, I'd go ask a Brian London, you
know, he's a well known expert. Now, I'm not saying he would do it for me, or he would do it for you. But But | would
find somebody that's positioned in the public forum like that to be guiding me in making the timing decisions about
whether and how much it makes sense to have liquid reserves in metals, right? | mean, if you would have done that,
two days ago, in silver, yesterday, you took a 15% haircut. And if you had to deploy capital today or tomorrow, then
you'd have egg on your face, right? So you really have to think about this no different than if you were to say, hey, the
stock market's booming. So I'm going to take all my liquid reserves, and I'm going to put them in Tesla. Because Tesla
is booming it with the idea that | can sell it later. And well, you know, we'll make some profit. So if you think of it that
way, because you're not really using precious metals as anything other than a hedge against the falling dollar. And
of course, if you get the hedge wrong, it could end up costing you now if what you're doing is you're building a
portfolio, and it's part of your portfolio strategy, like one of my, you know, fantasy somebody down the road is that I'd
like to run a real asset fund based on my real asset portfolios theory. And, you know, | would not be looking at
precious metals in that portfolio to serve the role of a trading vehicle to get in and out of to collect dollars, but |
would be looking for investors who wanted to earn and hold wealth in precious metals. And | would be doing deals
inside in such a way that | generated dollars and then time to the acquisition of metals. To build a portfolio what |
would call a resilient wealth portfolio so that they own a prorated share of the portfolio, which consists of real assets,
| would be holding cash flowing notes backed up by collateral on real estate where I've either going to get the
payments in the income, or I'm going to get the real estate and the income and there's enough protective equity that
| could withstand a downturn in the market and still end up okay. | would be in you know, cash flowing properties for
the equity upside and the benefits of leverage. I'd be holding precious metals, not for my cash reserves, but for my
savings as part of the portfolio. And then |, you know, who knows, | might even pay my dividends out in metal,
because | wouldn't hold any more dollars than actually needed for the purpose of, of facilitating the transactions and
meeting the cash reserves. the only the only thing | might do is | might look at my float and say, okay, you know, I've
always got, you know, say $300,000, or $400,000, in the checking account, on this fund. And even though it’s all
spoken for the float is there, and | could easily pull 100 grand or even 200 grand out and still be able to be plenty
liquid. And, you know, we're all willing to take the risk that | may end up needing to liquidate some of those precious
doubt, you know, have them check, but make sure you give them the principles, and they're very clear and your style
guide about what they can and can't say, with respect to pulling stuff out of an executive summary or investor
update or anything like that. Okay, Stacy, we're kind of waving your hand, you had a point. | think

6) Staci Gray 30:35

if you guys think of it in four buckets, so you have like content creation, which whoever the brand personality is, that's
the person that's going to be doing content creation. So it's writing newsletters, it's being on podcasts, it's doing
presentations, webinars, that’s content creation, there’s going to be a group of that, that that content creation, that's
public. And so whatever aspect that is public, that’s the stuff that can be repurposed for use on social media, the
stuff that maybe is private, that is deals specific, investor communications, that is exclusive to the people in your
deals, that's private, so that content wouldn't be repurposed to be used on social. So you have content creation,
whoever the visionary is brand personality, that's the content creator. So that's you guys. You guys are the content
creators, then you have your social media, you have the logistics of it. So then they'll take the content that is public
facing content and repurpose it into quotes, messages, video, headliners, images, graphics, videos, anything that
then they get put on social media, they'll find hashtags that are similar to what you're trying to be known for in your
space so that you can have better keyword reach, and so forth. So again, that's the logistical stuff, then you have
engagement, this is where the voice and style guide comes in the brand building comes in where you're congruent
with it. So people are commenting, people are sharing, you're engaging, you're asking other people to share, you're
sharing other people's content. So that's the engagement side of it. And then the fourth thing, which is what Russ
talked about is compliance. So making sure along every step of that path that you're staying compliant with what is
important for you as a syndicator.

© Russ 32:23

Okay, good question. And thank you, who else what else we got? We're saving Ben's question for the grand finale
here.

© Scott Florida 32:36

Any thoughts on an initial startup budget for operations, you're getting rolling, you got to, say, a $3 million project,
you got a $500,000 raise? What what kind of numbers do we need to be thinking about to just get the initial
operation stuff off the ground?

© Russ 32:59

Well, so there's two parts of because you know, when you're starting your business, you there's two, there's two
businesses, you have your business as an operator, meaning, you know, whatever the deal you're doing, so you're
going to set up a specific LLC, for the deal. And you're going to have the legal agreements of corporate filings you're
going to have whatever it takes to set up the books, the bank accounts, insurance policies, you're going to have all of
that. And that's very specific to the deal, all of that should come right out of the deal. So you may have to advance
some of that money. So you have to have a little seed capital, but you should expect to be able to get reimbursed for
that, once the business is funded. Okay. And so that's going to be what it is, it’s going to kind of depend on on the
deal. But you know, | mean, it costs you know, a couple $1,000 to form an entity, depending on how complicated the
offering is, you know, your ppm could be, you know, from five to $15,000 to kind of a big expense, but that's kind of
where you get in trouble if you don't get it right. So it’s really, really important because that’s where it dictates what
splits are who's in control, what your responsibilities are all your disclosures, so that if somebody comes back later to
that's really the art of building and running a team. And that's what | don't do, | understand the concept. But Stacy
actually does it in the real world. So stay tuned, I'm gonna toss it to you now cuz | think you're gonna have a lot of
good tactical information to share. Yeah, |

6) Staci Gray 08:14

agree with the overview and the structure that you explained, | find it really helpful to have a really clear picture of
what your system and processes look like | see a lot of entrepreneurs build their businesses around people and tools
they want to use, instead of building it around systems and processes. So they plug in the wrong things into the
wrong places, prematurely, instead of taking a step back and taking a look at your business and what you want your
business to do for you. And identifying what your sweet spot is going to be from the get go. So you're not building a
CRM or building a website or doing an admin work that you don't want to do that you're actually not qualified to do

anyways. And then you can find Why

© Russ 08:59

Why are you looking at me? Why? Why are you looking at me when you're saying that, | don't know.

) Staci Gray 09:04

And then once you kind of mapped out the processes and systems, then you go find the people and tools to plug in
to those. And then once you've plugged those people in, based on your clear vision, you have a meeting pulse,
because having a virtual team, you don't know really what everybody is doing. So you have to have touch points. So
having weekly touch points, and then in those weekly meetings, we have something called a scorecard. So it's
metrics for success. So every single person in whatever seat they're in, they have accountabilities in place so we can
know if we're hitting our marks or if we're not hitting our marks. And it's easy because they plug all their numbers into
the scorecard before we even get on the call. And we get on the call and | can instantly see if we're on track or if
we're not on track based on the numbers without hearing a story about how they got there or a story about how
they Didn't get there. And then my job as the leader is to come alongside and say, How can | help you improve and
grow so we could reach there better collectively. Because when people don't hit their numbers, or tools are falling
down, or failing, or things aren't working properly, that's a reflection of leadership. So sometimes it’s easy to, you
know, it's easier to just point blame and say, Oh, | have the wrong person in the wrong seat, or they're not doing a
good job, or they're, they don't have the chops or whatever we can blame. But in reality, it's you, as the leader, are
you showing up to give to equip them to do what they need to do train them properly, set clear expectations, and
then hold them accountable, and give them permission to have learning opportunities so that they can grow
because perfection is not going to happen at all, whether you're in person or virtually, it’s just not going to happen.
So having to open lines of communication, so you have a structure, like your your processes, which are your structure,
and then you have your touch points, which is your accountability, and then you have your communication for

growing.

A 11:07

Stacey, | just wanted to say thank you for that. And just let you know that my background is operations. And my
focus is process improvement. So you and | can have long conversations and see eye to eye. But my issue right now is
the nexus between the startup operations, and actually that, you know, organizational piece where you're managing
people. So right now, as a startup ops person, you know, | want to call on the guy | know, has the smarts for this
particular deal. | want him to be on the team for that deal. But not perpetually on my team, | want a person who you
