© Scott Florida 36:28

JO

That's tremendous. Oh, okay. Great.

36:32

Yes, so | do have a question. Actually, | had a question. And you just said something else that? | mean, you've said it
50 million times. And it resonated with me again, the student is ready. Yeah, well, it's it, you know, and it’s the part
about and this is not a mass, what we're doing here is not really about mass, its mass marketing, it's about being
able to get the right message to the right person. And so my question is related to that with maybe a little spin,
because you've also said something else in the past many times, which is resonated with me a long time ago, which
is really about making sure that we're we we are generating revenue to be able to best serve the our clients. And so
what if you've seen situations in the past, which I'm sure you have, where someone who's worked in a really
demanding job, well paid job into a lot of the things that were happening my case, and | was doing a lot on the
branding side, purely because | wanted to share that what was happening. And so I've generated a following, and
have a database. And | basically taught the database to just read in Not really, there was not really many calls to
action, because it was just about sharing, sharing, sharing. And so as | come closer to and I'm sure it's not just me,
but probably many other people. As we get closer to transitioning from what we're doing in our corporate lives.
There's now there's a point that says, Okay, well, we have this database of followers or number of people that we're
impacting, but we've never really asked them for anything. So really, how what are some of the, the ways that we can
have a following that we've taught them not to really react not to do anything that's related to generating revenue?
And to being able to do that? Hopefully the question is clear.

Russ 38:35

Yeah, so I'm going to use kind of an analogy which is imperfect only because the end the game for the prospect isn't
really exactly where we want to go. That's why | like nurturing the fruit tree because the fruit tree lives the fruit tree
isn't damaged when you eat. But really, what you've done is you've stocked the pond. So you've been stocking your
pond and you've taught your fish to swim around and consume freely and now you need to put some hooks in the
water you need to put some bait in the water and see who's going to bite so but of course you know as soon as they
bite you're not going to set the hook and reel him in and you know, skin him and got him so | don't like it's not a
perfect example. But you know, | mean what it’s what what we do, what we've always done is we put content out
there and then we have lead magnets which are follow up reports and when people respond to different things on
different topics. There those are different verticals. And so by claiming that piece of content they've told us a that
they listened all the way through. Like for example, last week | did a newsletter on soaring silver prices. And you
know, | had a very very strong feeling that silver was good To take off. So | had already recorded a webinar a nine
nine part series with Dana Samuelson on making sense of silver. That's in post production right now, in fact that it
everything happened faster than | expected. | feel like I'm behind. But and then in last week's newsletter | pivoted off
of the fact that silver exploded, | delayed one day, so | could kind of get the whole story. But it went out on Thursday,
and buried about two thirds of the way. And | made mention about a webinar I'm working on about converting
equity and properties into precious metals. And it had a call to action, which was precious equity at Real Estate guys
radio.com. Now | can see how many people responded to that, which tells me how many people read that far into
the newsletter, and were interested enough in the subject matter. So that that's useful information for me. But that's
a hook, | put something up, put some bait in the water and | got some bites, if | wouldn't have gotten any bites, | can
tell you, | wouldn't have bothered to put the seminar together, right, | haven't done it yet. | want to see, well, there's
no point in doing it until | see if | get any interest. That's why the best time to go out there and test your market is
when you don't have an offering because there's no point in go finding a deal that you've got nobody in your
database that they're interested in it. So you've been nurturing people along and whatever mechanism and you
continue to nurture them, now you begin to give them opportunities to engage. Buck, Joffrey has done a fabulous
JO

concerned about the world they’re in. And some of the ideas that are floating around out there that are catching
popularity. But | have a lot of faith in human beings. And | have a lot of faith in young people, if they're exposed to
good ideas and given real opportunity and challenged to push themselves to the limits of their ability. | mean,
Stacy's the young lady you're looking at that got pushed to the breaking point as a 16 year old, but she is a strong,
smart, competent woman in her mid 30s. Today, I'd put her up against any business executive out there in any sea
tower anywhere she's, but you know, you earn that, that doesn't come easy. But young people can do amazing
things. So | have a lot of faith in the human race. But you know, | got to do my part. And we all have to do our part,
Robert, and | could go raise hundreds of million dollars and get rich. That'd be fun. But we can raise hundreds of
billions of dollars through all of you and change your world. That's way better, and we'll get rich along the way. Or

richer. Anyway, okay, so that's a wrap unless anybody has any closing thoughts or comments. Michael, gotta unmute
yourself.

1:09:00

Thank you. I'm just wanting to say Scott that Russ actually delivers on all his promises. | just did that as a roleplay.
And my son got a job in real estate. So

Russ 1:09:16

Oh, yeah, that's right. Yeah. How about that? Thank you. Okay, guys, and gals, thank you so much for your time and
attention this month, and, you know, be sure to collect those real world questions and challenges. Because the more
real world stuff we have to talk about on these calls, the more valuable it is. Thanks, appreciate all of you know,
welcome to the club, Scott and Karen.

© Scott Florida 1:09:39

O
O)

Oh, my pleasure. Good to be here.

1:09:41
Alright everyone, bye bye.
JO

studying precious metals for ever since 2008. Coming out of 2008, we started diversifying outside the dollar and
thinking outside the real estate box. And that led us into the world of precious metals in the New Orleans investment
conference. And | kind of dug really deep and the more | studied bonds and interest rates and things that affect real
estate The more | realized that the gold and silver were indicators of dollar strength. And so most people out there
that are on your list probably earned dollars saved dollars denominate wealth in dollars. And probably wish they had
more dollars. And most of them see headlines go by like gold hit an all time high. Goldman Sachs as the dollar may
lose its reserve currency, and it's just background noise. And so the thing there might be something along the lines of
a, | don't know if you saw this headline, headline, or really understand what it means. But I'm sharing this with
everyone | know and care about. Because there's something here, anybody that cares about their money should be
interested in. And then you share something, could be a third party, | heard this show or | read this newsletter, you
use something that isn't you, that's credibility, pivoting off of something that's going on in the real world, top of mind.
And you're doing it under the context of engaging with them, because it's so important you want to share with
everybody, you know, because you care, and you just leave it there. Now, what have you done, this is all under the
stage of setting the table. Okay, so you're in the, you're in the three step process of developing the relationship, you're
in the set the table phase, you've painted a picture of yourself as somebody that is paying attention to money, and
you want them to think that you're that type of a person, you're painting the picture that you care about them, and
that's why you've contacted them. So that's the two things character, competency. Okay, they're little things, but it's
a start, right? Now, if you add some third party, and again, when you've done something like you've been on the
investor summit at sea, and you can throw on a little thing, like, you know, | talked to Robert Kiyosaki about this last
year, over dinner and, and then you say, what you learned. You know, there's, there's ways to work those things in you
just don't want to overplay that if you have, if you have the opportunity to do it, and you're going to err err on the
side of under playing at not over playing, because you don't want to appear to be pretentious or better than them.
You're just somebody who's connected, somebody who's informed, somebody who cares, somebody who's active,
and you start sharing. And then you begin putting stuff out and just nurturing that list. Now to find out if they're
reading to find out if they're interested maybe down towards the bottom, you say, Hey, | found this really great
report. And if you want just just email me back, and I'll, I'll send it to you. And if they read all the way to the bottom,
and the email, you know, they read, and you know, they're interested. And so then you send them whatever it is. You
say, Oh, this is an article that | cut out, here it is. And then you follow up a week later and say, Hey, | see the article,
you know, what did you think? And, and you're working towards getting into a conversation. Remember, again,
everything you do in marketing in the syndication business is driving towards a one on one conversation with
somebody that has a prior high probability of liking you, trusting you, and being interested in doing a deal and
capable of doing it. So everything you're doing in your marketing is about getting to that stage. Soon as you switch
over to a one on one conversation. You go from marketing to sales. And sales is again the same principles, but it's in
conversation now. And you go through this stuff that | was talking to Scott about this stuff, it’s this stuff that's on the
sales training, and you'll you know, | don't know, Karen, if you've been through the sales training, if you haven't, you'll
get it when you watch the How to Win Friends and Influence People you'll see Sorry, | can’t remember everybody
that's been through the training.

58:31

Okay, | didn't go to the training, though. Um, so yeah, so, Mike, my question two is, um, so I, I've done the

infrastructure, it's all there, you know, and | know, | need to start communicating with my network, which | haven't
started yet. And, you know, and | think a lot of that has to do with success, fear and all that stuff, because | don't
have a problem with writing stuff. So | could write all that stuff. It’s not a problem. | think it's fear. But | I'm sort of

afraid in this particular case, because | actually have a deal that has a very short timeline. Well, that's what

Russ 59:10

real estate people always do, though, right? | mean, when | get up there and say, Hey, the most important thing you
_)oO

JO

do is build your brand, your network, it starts today, you can start today, don’t wait to start start today. And | say it
and people like yeah, then they go find a deal. Like oh my god, | need a brand and a network. Yeah. Yeah.

59:28

Those parts and so | think COVID actually gave me a break, because you know, everything started slowing down. So
it bought me a couple of weeks or something, but | still have it nurtured, but | gotta sell the deal. Well, |

Russ 59:42

mean, if you have a deal, that’s a good deal. There may be people in the club, and again, Robert and | aren't in the
business of matchmaking, we run a bar. So we want everybody to get together and have a good time if people hook
up that's on them, right? We're not about that. But with that said, there are people in in In our environment, that are
looking for deals. And so this is a pond that you can fish in. And we're okay with that, because everybody signed
disclosures and noncompetes. And, and, and waivers and they're all big boys and girls in there, they we take
responsibility, we're not saying that you, you know, aren't running a Ponzi and that you're a person, | don't know, we
don't know. | mean, you know, we do a little bit of checking on people before we let them in the club. But at the end
of the day, everybody's responsible, but it is a group of people that you have something in common, and you know,
that they're, they're raising money and looking for deals. So you know, that that's a place where you can go a little
bit faster. And if it's a good deal, you shouldn't have a problem attracting capital. And if it's a, you know, if it’s a kind
of a prestige deal, or a niche that people are interested in having on their resume, you may get some people that
even take a mediocre return just to just to have their name on the deal. And to be able to say, my partners, and | did
that. So think about everything you have to offer and not just the deal and the financial return, but think about the
total package. And that's everywhere. Because this is obviously not the only place where you can find syndicators
and club, you know, stuff. | mean, we'd like to think we're the best we're building on quality and based on ethics and
community and kind of a with a philosophy, we would rather go slow and get it right culturally, at the beginning. But
there there are other ponds deficient where people are prepared to go quickly, because they know it's about doing
deals. So don't be afraid to go there. Don't just restrict your thinking to just people where you're trying to resurrect
people who haven't spoken to in a long time. Because you know, if you're farming and let's say you've got a 40 acre
parcel, and you divide it into 410 acre plots, and you you, you organize the one, you planted the one plot a year ago,
and it's, you know, the front 10 acres is kind of, you know, ripe and that's where you can harvest the back, that you
haven't been nurturing and haven't taken care of, no matter how hungry you are, it's not ready to give you fruit. And
if you go in there and try and take the fruit, all you're gonna do is really kind of ruin the harvest and kill the seed. So
better to take your, you know, the people that need to be nurtured, the people that aren't ready, they're not ready. So
start getting ready today, because tomorrow, one day will be today and do what you can but then go look for go
look for folks that have a shorter fuse, where you can kind of get to home base faster,

1:02:30

if that makes sense, a metaphor that | needed in my head. So thank you so much for the harvest.

Russ 1:02:35

Well, | think that you know, it's a lot of it is just if you think in pictures, and I'll just I'm going to close with this because
we're at the end of our time. But | do want to close with this, because | do think this is really important, especially for
those of you just getting started and probably talking mostly to Scott, and to you, Karen. But anybody watching this
is just getting started, one of the most important things you do, and | personally just went through this, my wife died
financial objective might not be enough. So | think it’s a good idea for you. Always, | mean, we always say have a
personal investment philosophy have a personal syndication philosophy, | think you want to make sure that your
fund has a philosophy and methodology. And so be clear about that the more articulate you can be about who you
are, what you're setting out to accomplish. And what you are and aren't willing to do to get there, the risks you are
and aren't willing to take to get there, the more clear people can be about what it is they're signing up for. And that
clarity is really important. Because if you end up getting sued, if something goes sideways, the basis is going to be
they didn't tell me, | didn't know if | would have known | wouldn't have. And of course, you mitigate a lot of that when
you do a project specific deal, because they get a chance to see the deal. So a lot of it is going to revolve both up in
terms of the marketing side of it, but also on the legal defense side of it. On your professional judgment. That's what
people are buying. And so the more clear you are, and so | think putting your investment philosophy out there is very,

very helpful. Let's see what else | think terasse can | yeah, absolutely.

A 18:31
Where are some good places to see, like sample investment philosophies, because | believe we have an investment
philosophy, but we, we, we haven't, we've got a lot of different things. We've got, you know, our target acquisition
criteria, and how we're going to, you know, merchandise, the portfolio and stuff, but where would | find, like an

example of an investment philosophy just so like, we could, you know, kind of just hammer one out? Yeah,

© Russ 19:03

sure. So, | think that, you know, people | like to write, I've been told that people think I'm a decent writer, people. So
how did you learn to write by reading? So | think that you just want to read a lot of offerings, and it doesn't matter. |
mean, you know, it could be public offerings, any any mutual fund blind fund, you know, if you if you're on mailing
lists, and you should be and all of you should be reading lots of offerings all the time, because that's your stock and
trade, right? | mean, you're there to tell stories about deals and how do you learn to be a good storyteller by reading
a lot of stories. So you should be looking at lots and lots of deals. So throw something up on the forum and see if
anybody's got one, either directly or that they're, that they've been reading and can refer to but but get yourself on a
lot of listen and read. And then and then you know, think about the story that you need to tell and then write one
and then pay pass it around to everybody and get some feedback. Okay, and see, you know, because you're gonna
have to find your own voice. | think that's important. And if you feel like you already have a pretty clear philosophy,
then you just have to get good at telling the story. But | think that, you know, the key components | talked about are
important, you know, you have to be clear about what the fund's target financial outcome is, who's driving the ship,
and what their qualifications are, | think what the philosophy is about how you're going to go about it, especially
your philosophy towards risk in a very chaotic environment, | think people are going to care about that. And the fact
that you've taken time to think about what an escape plan is, even though people don't want to hear about the
potential bad side, | think at the end of the day, they are interested in making sure there's chat and wasn't paid to
stay, so I'm not paying attention to chat. So if there's anything on there that | need to see, you're gonna have to point
it to me cuz | can't read it. You don't have to | handled it. Okay, thanks. Sorry, | should have had my chat open rookie
mistake, I'm still learning how to do this whole zoom thing. But | think time horizons are also very important. You
know, because most of these funds, you're going to require capital be locked up. And that's going to be an objection.
And you have to turn the objection into a selling point. The reason Wall Street is so volatile is because it's so liquid,
right? People can get in and, and get out, and they trade and they flip, and it creates all kinds of volatility. And the
traders, the people who are in there, churning all day long, they make their profits by skimming, by, by flipping things,
the more velocity they can have in the markets, the better and it's very wasteful, right, the, the, what | call the
parasites like it because they just siphon stuff off the flow through, but they don’t add any value. If you're going to go
out there and do real value add, you have to have access to the capital long enough for the value to grow fruit. |
mean, if you were a farmer, and your investors were demanding a return after the first week, then you'd have to tear
up the the seed and hand it back to them. You haven't given it time to germinate, to grow, to develop its roots and
Yeah, so it's a great question. And here's the good news, once you kind of get the pattern down, it’s always the same.
So it never changes. And you just keep repeating the pattern. And so in this particular case, you know, you're you, you
start out with whatever your first contact is, and then you have some type of a nurturing. So if you've already had
some conversations with people, hopefully you found some way to stay in touch with them from time to time. So it
doesn't go from Hi, how you doing to, hey, I've got something to sell you. So if you haven't been doing that, then it
might be good through whatever your primary communication mechanism is, could be emails could be just to camp
out and call people and touch base with them. And so you kind of warm up the relationship and keep it warm, by
adding value. And of course, like | said, at the top, there's a lot of things that are on people's hearts and minds right
now that they're concerned about. And so when you, sorry, when you are touching base with them, you're not there
to talk to them, you're going to listen to them, and talk with them. And you're much more interested in what they
have to say than what you have to say. And so the sales formula and How to Win Friends and Influence People is the
three step nucleus, set the table, touch the heart, engage the mind. And it's fractal, which means that it’s going on in
big sequences, but it's also going on in every conversation. So the process of getting in position setting the table, if
you will, are these touch points of Hey, | saw an interesting article, it made me think of you on our last conversation.
Oh, want you know, | this just happened in the news, or, you know, we're working on this particular project you had
mentioned at some point when | had a project ready to go, Well, I'm working on one. So with your permission, |, you
know, I'll touch base with you, and I'm ready to go. Now you could be ready to go. But where they're at in the cycle,
they're not ready to go. So you're kind of just soft selling them so that they're saying yes, because it's a low level of
commitment, there’s nothing for them really to say yes to in their mind, you're not going to say hey, let me send your
perspectives get together and show you the numbers and you can wire me funds, right? Because that means
sophisticated people know what's on the back end of this, you got to ease them into it. Okay, the other. And then, of
course, the other thing is by giving a little bit of time in between is you're building credibility, building rapport, there's
always the possibility that they're going to get in conversations with people. And you'll begin to get a little bit of
word of mouth stuff, if you're really adding value, if it's not just a conversation about, you know, like, Hey, how you
doing? How's the wife? How's it? How's the kids? You know, what do you think of the what's going, you know, going
on, | mean, of course, the world gives us something to talk about, because there’s economic weather, you know, with
there's extreme weather, there's a natural disaster, people talk about it. In this case, we've got a lot of things going on
to talk about. So. So you know, you want to have that going on. And whatever point that you feel they're ready. And
a lot of times they'll tell you, they're ready, then then it's time to have a conversation. And then what you do is you
may have recollection, you had mentioned Scott, hey, I've had some conversations with people and they said they'd
be interested. Okay, well, before you show them what you think they're interested in, based on a conversation you
had at some time in the past, it’s a tom Hopkins technique, you have to refresh them conversations in your mind, they
may have completely forgotten it, things may have completely changed. So at whatever point you kind of begin that
sequence after you've kind of reset the table. You say hey, Scott, you know, the last time we spoke, we were talking a
little bit about you know, the your finances and your future and some of the things I'm working in and the potential
for me to help you get where you want to go, Okay, I'm no words, it’s all about you. And you had said to me, that you
are interested in this kind of a deal. And I'm just curious, is that still true? And so what you're doing is you're you're
making conversation, you're setting the table, it's all about you. Now you're getting them involved in a conversation
bringing them back to that state of mind they were in when you last left them and expressed interest, which was a
sale by the way, so congratulations. And you gotta Yes. So you got to build that momentum back so that you can
pick up where you left off. You can’t just go back and assume that they are where you left them. They are not frozen
in time. They have changed their circumstances have changed. The memory has faded. It's that memory is more
important to you because you had your eye on a few Your outcome, then it was to them. But it was important enough
to them that they said Yes, I'd be interested when the time comes, then you need to get them back up to that level.
And you do that through questions, not talking. And you get them talking. And then when they tell you the what, you
always want to get to the why behind the what. And so again, that’s in the sales training, | don't want to, you know,
reiterate it, but repetition is the mother of mastery, you know, so the conversation is, you know, so you said, you know,
that, that you'd be interested in, you know, a particular type of outcome are, you'd be interested. And so I've got

some things going right now. Probably going to be ready to go here pretty soon. So | just want to revisit with you and
see where you're at. Curious. When you think about an investment if | was put something in front of you on a you

know, a scale of one to 10 that just knocked out of the park, it was a 10 you know, what would that look like? And
Russ 11:35

Okay. Yeah, that’s a great question. We did one. And just for everybody who doesn't know just in case, basically, you
have two different ways you can approach putting money together, you can identify a deal, and put together a
business plan specific to that deal. And then when you pitch it, you're basically pitching the deal. And you're talking
about the market, the team, the business plan, the potential, the ROI. When you're pitching a blind fund, you don't
have a deal in mind. So it’s a different sell. It's like in sales, you can if you sell a tangible product, like a car, you can
put people in the car, they can see it, they can smell it, they can hear it, they can drive it, they can easily envision
themselves owning it and experiencing it. When you're selling a financial product, it's intangible. So you have to find
a way through your words and your conversation to take them in their mind's eye to some future time and place
where they're enjoying tangible benefits from having made the the intangible decision to get into your vehicle today.
And that's why the connection between why they want to invest is so much more important than what they're
investing and they don't care about the what that’s just a vehicle, the why the destination is what they're interested
in. Well, when it comes to a blind fund, you can't sell them a specific deal. So the rules of basic alignment of money
and objectives still hold, it's just that you have to be very clear what your blind fund is being set up to do. And so
what financial results are you aiming at? In other words, is the preservation of capital fund? Is this an Income Fund?
Is this an equity growth fund? Is this a tax mitigation fund? Is this a preservation of Wealth Fund, which is different
than a preservation of capital fund, by the way, you know, like Warren Buffett says, you know, don't lose money.
Okay, that’s great knees sitting on tons of dollars that are doing what? Going down in value, because the Fed is
printing them. So if you don’t know what money is, and I'm not criticizing Buffett, but it’s just highlighting that words
mean things you know, you can, you can end up having an investment objective that you think is one thing, and it
means something else. So be very clear about what it is that your fund is going to do in terms of the type of financial
result it is intended to produce. And my suggestion would be if you're going to do multiple things, then set up
separate funds to do those separate things. Unless, of course, your argument is, Hey, this is a balanced fund or a
diversification fund. And we're going to put a little bit of a whole lot of things inside which case the overarching
theme is one of stability, diversification hedging. No matter which way the market goes, we'll, we'll probably have at
least one or more investments that are well positioned, and that'll offset whatever things we may have in the
portfolio that are not positioned well. So that's number one. So the basic of being clear about who you are and what
it is you intend to do, and then being very clear about who your investor is and what it is they want, making sure
they're aligned as number one. | think number two is now you can't sell a specific deal or a specific market. So what
you've got to do To sell the team, you got to be able to talk to them about who is at the controls. So there are people
who invest in people, they invest in managers, it you know, | happen to pay a lot attention to the precious metals
environment. And there are mining executives that have track records they go date, they have a track record for
being able to build a successful mining company. And so it doesn't really matter what new project they're off on to
their investors who just follow them around and anything they choose to do. People do. Most people know who
Warren Buffett is, most people don’t know what his investment objective is, doesn't have any idea what his holdings
are, except for the few things that get discussed publicly. For the most part, when people invest in Berkshire
Hathaway, they're investing in Warren Buffett. And so, you know, he sells a blind fund. So if you're going to be selling
a blind fund, you put a lot of emphasis on the team. And so when you're looking at your presentation, you need to
make sure Hey, do | have all the majors covered? Right, for whatever it is we're professing to go do do | have people
on the bus that are marketable, that have cachet that have track record, if you don't, then that's the time to go
bolster it with who you hire as advisors are who you put on your advisory board, or even vendors, you choose to work
with you position, you don't hide the fact that they're vendors, but you highlight the fact that they are expert in the
space, they have a track record of successfully performing whatever function they have within the fund. So | think
that that’s number two Silva team. | think the other thing too, in addition to investment, alignment is also investment
of philosophy. And that’s maybe a little bit different. It so it’s not just what you're trying to achieve. But it’s a
methodology by which you're trying to achieve it. You know, on an extreme example, if you said, Hey, we're going to
invest, invest in companies that have high profit margins. And we don't care if they use slave labor, okay, well, then
there's a philosophy there, some people are going to object to it either at the get go, because they're going to know

what you're doing or down the road when they realize what you're doing. So just making money and hitting a
JO

JO

JO

ideas about how investing with you can take advantage of the opportunities created by what's going on in the world
or mitigate the risks being created by what's going on in the world, | think you'll have a much higher success rate. But
more than that, you're going to have a much higher referral rate. Because you're going to bring something unique to
the party, and they're gonna say, Oh my gosh, | just talked to this man or woman, they're so smart. They're helping
me understand something | didn't understand before. And you should talk to them, too. That's what you want. So this
isn't just about getting deals done. It's about really leveraging what's happening to build your brand, build your
network, and expand it. Expand your influence. And then and then you'll find you have more opportunities, that's a
little bit of a monologue, to kind of kick things off, get the juices flowing. What I'd like to do now is just open it up. If
you came to this party with a question specific to sales and marketing, then I'm ready to take that and do the best |
can to answer it. And if you feel like you've got something to chime in from your real world experience, then we'd love
to hear you | don't have to be the only person kind of chiming in on helping answer a question. So anybody want to

go first? Somebody's got something Don't be shy. | Karen Hey, Karen Karen’s brand new Welcome to the club. Karen.

05:04

Finally | met you guys back in November. I'm down in. Was it up in Denver? | can't remember anymore. Dallas. It was
Dallas. Right? Right. Started with a D. Yeah. And | really, Miss Bob. So I'm so sorry to hear | haven't had a chance to
reach out to Robert. But um, but I've, I've made it. So I'm finally here. So I'm so happy. I've done a lot of good work.
And now I'm ready to do sales. Um, | got my orientation stuff, but | just need to learn how to navigate | mean, | could
have gone to customer service. | suppose | sent a letter about navigating the the platform, but | can't click on things
like when | click on videos, you're not

05:48

okay. Karen, this is a this is a sales and marketing call. So yes. He was asked that, and then we can address some of

your administrative stuff offline.

05:57

Yes, well, | only wanted to do my sales videos last night. | couldn't get in them. So that's really all | wanted to say.
Okay, yeah, sales,

Russ 06:08

hit up, hit up membership. And I'll tell you right now, | can tell you that I'm not. I'm not super happy with the How to
Win funds and Influence People course that's on the platform, the class we did was great. | think it was maybe one of
the best ones that I've done. But the production quality wasn't up to our standards. But rather than not put it out,
especially because we were supposed to re record it this summer. And of course, couldn't do it because we had to
postpone the event until we get through this lockdown. | just want to say that but with that said, there's still plenty of
good information there. The way to get the most out of the course. And | say this all the time. But because you're
new, I'm gonna say it again. And | think it's really, really important. We all should be part of a Alliance, a group of
people and you know, sales one on one, they call it a leads group. But | like it to be a little bit tighter than that. When
| first met Robert, that's what we formed, we formed an alliance, he and I, him in real estate, me and mortgage and
we began to market together. And then we expanded that. And we picked out other people that had complementary
knowledge bases and different databases and different product offerings. And we teamed up with a 1031 exchange
guy retirement account guy, we commercial mortgage. What else did we have to say 1031. tax deferred exchange. So
we had a whole bunch of different people, lawyers, obviously. And they would come in and we would teach together
job, at least, you know, and | don't follow buck tightly right now, although | am on his mailing list does seem from a
mailing list perspective, like he’s gotten a lot more deal centric, is almost always offering deals now kind of he built it
up. And now he's just harvesting. And I'm not saying that’s bad, he’s doing very, very well. But, you know, if it were me,
I'd probably be a little bit softer, but | don't know what else he's got going and how else is he’s communicating with
this list. But the point there is, is that is that you, you could create an investor club. So you know, so part of what
you're doing, when you are putting content out there is you are nurturing their curiosity, and you're feeding them so
that they, they stay in your pond, and they don't go looking for another pond, so to speak, okay, so you keep them,
you can tell by your downloads and your open rates and subscription rates and all that how you're doing. The second
thing that you're doing, and | hope you're doing this is you're painting a picture of who you are. You're showing them
by adding value that you care about them, and that it's about them and not you because you're not trying to sell
anything. But you also need to be painting a picture of your competency. So we just got done talking to Scott about
character, and competency. How you act as they spend time around you paints a picture about your character. But
the stories you tell about what you're doing, what you're working on experiences you've had, you can find a way to
talk about them without making it look like you're boasting, or name dropping. And it's done in the context of
sharing something that you think would be helpful to your audience, you're beginning to paint a picture of who you
are. Okay, this is all under the setting the table category. Then at some point, you can say, hey, I've put together a
club, I've got some friends and | we've been doing some deals together. And we've got room for some other people. If
you'd be interested in being in that club, just click this link and send me an email. And let me know. And then now
they bite. Now you can have a conversation, your universe is probably small enough, you could have a personal, hey,
you know, and set up a call and have a conversation and then you just do the sales technique that | just got done
going over with Scott. But ultimately everything you're doing from a marketing perspective in this business should be
driving towards a one on one engagement, either with yourself or with an investor relations person on your team in
that they're going to do the sales technique or they're going to reset the table. You know, set the agenda. Hey, Billy,
we've got you know, 45 minutes together. I've scheduled half an hour for this call. | can go longer if we need to. But
you've got my undivided attention for 30 minutes. I've got a few things I'd like to share with you. But before we go
there, I'm curious what made you decide to pick up the phone and be on this call with me. If we have a great
conversation and we hang up the phone in 30 minutes and it's just a home run and met all your expectations made
you really happy? What's that look like? Now you have to find different ways to say that because you're going to use
that technique over and over again. But by But that's what you want to do. And then they'll tell you, what they want
to get out of the call your mission is to give them everything they came for, and sneak in if you think you want in the
process, right, it's like trying to get your dog to take the pill, you got to put it inside the cheese or whatever. You know,
you give them what they want, but you're going to feed them what you want them to have. Also boys can be
wrapped in a package they can handle. But that that's really it. | mean, that's it. So you know, you can start a club,
that's a great way to do it. You can offer consultations, you could do a webinar, you could say, Hey, everybody, I'm
going to do a special thing, or you know, and you can bring in third party credibility, you can say, Hey, you know, I’ve
been working on this project. And I've learned so much that | want to share, I'm going to do this video or do this
webinar with the project manager. And we're going to get into kind of the nuts and bolts of how do you do this kind
of a project. And you position the team member, as a subject matter expert, no deal on the table. But now, they're
buying you. And they're buying them. And they buy people before they buy deals. And then later you say Hey, now
let's if you're interested in seeing the deal we're working on click here. And then that's another step. Some people
want some people well, it's a filtration process, and then you distill down. So by the time you are in a one on one
conversation, which is your most precious precious commodity, your time, you're talking with people that are well
prepared, highly interested, and have earned the right to be in the conversation. So don't talk anybody just because
they want to talk to you because that paints a picture of desperation, be a little bit aloof without being snooty. And
you know, and guard your psychology especially if you're new in selling. And I'm you know, even to this day, and I've
been doing this a very, very long time. I'm not that thick skinned. | don't like talking to people and arguing with them.
If you don't want to talk to me, | don't want to talk to you. So | think you know, a lot of filtration processes that Robert
and | built in our business prevents us from having to deal with rejection and what | call Yeah, butters people who are
skeptics and cynical no matter what you say. Yeah, but there’s Yeah, but that okay, well, if you're gonna Yeah, but
mean go Yeah, but somewhere else. Because, you know, I'm, I’m not about that. You know, | mean, I’m happy to

explain it to you. But if your whole mission is to make me wrong, I'm not going to argue with you. I'm wrong. It's not a
match. And then | do the takeaway. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait, wait, wait, I’m still interested, well, then start
acting like a nice person, or I'm not going to put you in my deal. I'm the hot commodity here, not you. Right. It’s my

attitude. | don't say that to them. But my attitude is how | protect my psychology. So that was a big answer to kind of
a nebulous question, did | answer your question?

47:50

_JO

You did. And so just to make sure that I'm taking the message in it, continue to do what I've been doing, and in at the
same time, give specific opportunities for those individuals that are there to continue to

© Russ 48:05

do what you're doing but paint a picture of competency in yourself and your team Eric during competency Exactly,

yeah, actually just a depot by the team. So if you can work your team into the content as subject matter experts, it'll
build them to

48:18

JO

it's in your your point is super valid, just did a webinar over the weekend. Last weekend, and by having someone else
who was a subject matter expert, it's amazing that people that have been part of the list for two and a half years
and then said hey, | really need to gauge engage with you, | need to talk to you about what's happening with the
with the IRAs with the cares act, I'm so glad that you were talking about this. And so your your your point, it

resonates with me even more, because it's a proof point of being able to work with and collaborate with others that
are subject matter experts and adding value to to the database. So

© Russ 48:56

yeah, and it takes the pressure off you when you're hosting anything, you know, you're not by yourself and you don't

you. | mean, you've got somebody else here who's really the expert, and you're more of the kind of the facilitator.
Yeah, okay,

A 49:09

thank you very much,

© Russ 49:11

Michael. Well, first of all, anybody else getting | can't see you, Karen. So you just,

A 49:17

that's okay. Okay. | just had to I'll use the chat box in the future. For questions. Um, the first one is around repairing

relationships, and timing regarding the restart of the nurturing process. And | have a second question after that.
CC - July 29, 2020 - Q&A LIVE Call on Sales and
Marketing wi...

@ Tue, 9/28 12:01AM © 1:09:56

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, deal, question, fund, interested, sales, conversation, important, business, happening, adding, talk, nurturing, investment,

philosophy, relationship, scott, marketing, subject matter expert, started

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida

) Russ 00:16

All right, so here we go syndication mentoring club. We are here for our sales and marketing q&a. | guess this is
officially an ask the mentors segment and | would make me the sales and marketing mentor. But we're all really here
to mentor each other. We all have different experiences that we're having you learned by doing you learn by making
mistakes, maybe some of you feel very comfortable with your sales and marketing. Maybe some of you are still trying
to figure out which way is up, | just want to encourage you, if you're kind of new to revenue generation, strategic
relationship building, and just even brand building, you're getting yourself out there. It's both an art and a science. So
if you go back and you look at the presentations and build your brand, build your network where | talk about the
basic premises of how you build a brand through presentation through associations, or endorsements or
accomplishments. And then ultimately, just showing up every day consistently. That's a great way to build a brand
building a network is by adding value, kind of like a farmer. You know, in real estate, they call it farming you you stake
out a territory, and you nurture it. In this case, right now we've got the COVID-19 crisis going on. Finance, money,
economics, financial security, inflation. Now precious metals, just really top of mind for everybody, the news cycle is
making it so much easier to talk to people right now about their money. So if you're not enjoying what's going on
right now, if you're not taking advantage of it, | encourage you to start doing it, get into conversations, find out what
people are thinking, don't talk, listen, find out what people are thinking, find out what people are feeling, find out
what they're being told by the people they listen to. If you talk less and listen more, then you'll get some insights into
how your target market is feeling and thinking and who's influencing them what they're buying, what they're not
buying in terms of ideas. And then you can either feed them, or look for third party credibility to help turn them in a
direction that's going to make more sense, | can make a very compelling argument for leveraged real estate in
today's market. In fact, I'm going to be working on some content to do that. And you should be thinking about how
whatever it is you do, however, you're positioning yourself with respect to your offering, your investment strategies,
your team, your market, your product niche, the demographic, how does that fit into what's going on? In terms of
what's happening in the economy? And the macro economic picture? Are you in a position to do well? Or are you ina
position where you're going to have to react, maybe mitigate risk pivot into someplace where there's a better
opportunity? | can’t answer those questions for you. But | can help you ask yourself better questions. So that you can
begin to get your your thoughts together. Because if all you do is go out there and just explain to people, here's,
here's my deal, here's how it works, here’s the numbers are you interested, if you do enough of that, you'll get some
response. But if you take the time to set the table, to build your brand, to get in position where they trust you in terms
of your ethics, your competency, and the people you're surrounding yourself with and then you educate them with
JO

in December. And after 41 years of being a married man married to this one woman having a very clear picture of
who | was, where | was going, everything changed. And | knew that | was susceptible to getting lost, and not knowing
who | was, and getting sucked down into all kinds of terrible things, places that people go when they suffer a major
loss. But | was smart enough to know that | needed to get a vision for myself a very clear vision of who, who I'm
going to be now who the new Russ is in this era of being a widower and no longer married man. And so | created a
very defined picture of who | was, and | wrote it down. And for probably the first three or four months, | read it every
single day. And it shapes how | talk, what | think about what | do. And | think that you know, what you want to do is
you want to think about who you are, what is your brand all about what is your brand promise, so that you know like
I'm talking to Billy about putting stuff and Scott about putting stuff out there that’s painting a picture of who you are.
You can't paint the picture if you don't have it in your mind's eye. Right? And but if you do have it crystal clear in your
mind's eye and you be who you're becoming, then you will have congruency every word that comes out of your
mouth. Every word you write every act every deal every business decision will reflect that person and eventually the
habits of disciplining yourself to be that person will make you that person it's not fake it till you make it it's be who
you're becoming. And it's a 20 473 65 thing it doesn't stop you know you don't like Okay, um, you know, I'ma I'ma
self absorbed aihole in my off time, but I'm you know, nurturing and kind and care about other people when I'm
selling, it doesn't work that way. People are too smart, and they'll smell you out. So | think that that's really
important. Of course, those are extreme examples. I'm not suggesting anybody on this call is, you know, a
sociopathic aihole. But what | am saying is that it’s really, really important that you get a picture of who you are

when we started this club, when | started my partnership with Robert and we sit down and defined who we were,
what our core values are, what we were willing to do what we weren't going to do. And we've been pretty consistent
over the years, which is why we've built a brand. We get great endorsements, people who in the beginning,
everybody wants a piece of Robert Kiyosaki. But we ended up at the top of the heap. How did that happen?
consistency. Same with Peter, same with all the people that we have these great relationships with, lots of people
could have been where we're at, but we're the ones that got there. And | think it was because Robert and | are pretty
much the same 20 473 65 you catch us off guard, we're the same guys that you see on stage, we're the same people
on the radio, it's always the same. Be who you're becoming, be consistent. There's plenty of people out there who will
fall in love with whoever it is you really want to be. So don't try to be what you need to be to win people be who you
want to be. So you feel great about yourself, and then go attract people that are going to be interested in that. |
that's personally what I'm doing right now. I'm trying to become the best new me! can. And you know, I've been
feeling a little rudderless, but little by little, it's starting to take shape. And depending on how radical a change you're
trying to make, whether it’s foisted upon you like mine was, and so a lot of people are going through that they're like,
Oh, my God, | just lost my business, | just lost my career, | immediately have to become this new person. And so
people will take me seriously as a syndicator. Because | got to figure out how to make a living, okay? That's okay.
Compress timeframes, but don’t circumvent the process. And it starts with getting a clear vision of who you are, and
then discipline yourself to behave that way and paint that picture 20 473 65. And then if you do that, then eventually
you will build a brand that people will trust more than that, you're going to build a brand that you're going to when
you look in the mirror, you're going to be proud of who's looking back at you. And | don't think you can put a price on
how rich that is.

1:07:14

Thank you for that. Russell, | have one more point. Sure you enter or are you a minister?

Russ. 1:07:23

Well, actually, technically, I'm an ordained minister, | did that once. Because my, my sister in law wanted me to
perform the wedding. But | am definitely, I'm not a church guy. Although | have plenty of that in my background, so
But |, but I, but | definitely am interested, you know, in, in seeing people, you know, to, you know, you want to change
the world, I've got six kids and 13 grandchildren, | think it is probably more coming. | just got to new this year. And I'm
strength and develop real sustainable profit. So you need to be prepared to explain to people, whatever your
timeframe is, so they go in with their eyes wide open, but you also need to be prepared to justify it and explain it. And
| think the other part is, you have to have both entrance and exit. So there's entrance strategy, how do people get in?
And that's kind of like, you know, how do they get in? Why do they get in? How long are they expected to stay in?
How do they get out? And what does that look like? So be prepared to go through the lifecycle of your fund, and
explain how all that works? Because people are going to need to know how that goes as well. So it's kind of a lot of
an answer. It's a great question. And | think that at some point in everybody's career, blind funds are a lot easier. But
they also are a little bit harder to sell. And they're riskier, because now it's all on your professional judgment and
execution. Whereas, you know, if it's a specific deal, they can't say, Oh, you didn't tell me you were going to do that
deal? Well, yeah, | kind of did, because that's the deal. But you know, they won't call into question, why did you do
that deal that you didn’t do your due diligence, and you should have seen this, you should have known that the
economy was going to fall apart and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Right. Right. | know, because that happened to us.
So knowing what | know now, | mean, we would have been a lot we would have been a lot more clear on our
marketing not that we did a bad job. But you know, we learned a lot. So hopefully that's worth did. Did that answer
your question? Michaels? Anything else? on that? Ross?

23°40

Jo

| got 12 key takeaway. So that really was an outstanding answer. Awesome. So no, I'm extremely happy. So before

© Russ 23:49

we close that, does anybody have any add on comments or questions on that topic before we switch? Okay. All right.
Well, that was a fun one. So what else who else has got a Sales and Marketing Challenge out there that we can
wrestle with?

&) Scott Florida 24:07

| have more of a rookie question.

& Russ 24:09

Okay, Scott? Scott, right.

©) Scott Florida 24:13

Hey, it's good to see you guys. Thanks for doing this. So working on my first syndication and trying to get my head
around the basics of it. When it comes to sales marketing. The key question that pops up in my head is so | get the
offering together and kind of create the, the offer, then, what do | do first? My, my first thought is | probably just
gotta call the people that | already know that I've talked with that have expressed interest in doing deals with me in
the past or have you know, | know I've got a good relationship with. So my question is your first start now what are
the what are the steps that you take to kind of get the ball rolling and build some momentum Um, in that area?

© Russ 25:01
JO

Russ 49:38

Yeah, well, | mean, | think that the sequence is, you know, whatever first contact is somewhere, you know, somebody
gets a business card, you meet them somewhere. They join your email list through social media or however a friend
refers them. However, however they get to you there's first contact. So there's first impression which you don't have a
lot of control over. Other than what you Put out there. But then there's first contact. So it's kind of like, and | always
use this analogy, and I, you know, but everybody gets it. So, you know, if you're in kind of a single scene in a bar
scene and you walk in and you got your eye on somebody, or their got their eye on you, they might be watching you,
or you might be watching them way before you, either one of you are aware of it. Right? Okay, so that's first
impression, you're making a first impression whether you know, you've you're being watched or not. And so then, then
there's first contact where there's an actual, you know, you make eye contact, or somebody comes over and says,
Hello, or whatever, now you're, now you're engaged in a conversation, or in some type of a contact. And then if
you're, if you're interested in, if you like what you see mutually at that level, then you want to nurture that
relationship, if you're in it for the long haul, you behave a certain way, you move slowly, you want to always be
putting your best foot forward, you want to be building high levels of trust, because you only get to intimacy with
trust. And, you know, when we're talking in financial terms, obviously asking someone to wire hundreds of 1000s of
dollars and put it under your care that is a high level of trust. So you know, you have to be able to build that at that
that's financial intimacy.

51:23

Well, Russell, | think my question really is around repairing relationships, whereas | might have had already had an
existing intimate relationship with the individual. And, um, maybe | took that for granted. So | have to sort of repair it
back off and don't want to lose them as part of my network. But | just feel like, | don't, I've already done my cleaning
up and, you know, repairing and apologies. But | don't want to just dive back in and start the sale again.

Russ 51:55

It's Yeah, well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. First of all for this is, this is kind of good. There's a lot of people out there. So
the first thing is to ask yourself is, you know, am | trying to repair this? Because | want something from them? Or am |
trying to repair this? Because | have something for them? That's good for them. That's number one. Number two is,
you know, if, absent having a deal, would | want this person in my life? The answer is no. Then | would go look for
someone you would want to have in your life, even if there was no deal involved, and then make a deal happen.
Because | think you'll end up enjoying that relationship better. If you're going to spend time developing a relationship,
make sure it's with the right people, this is about you knowing you. And this is about understanding that there's just a
lot of fish in the seat, so to speak. But with that said, let's say you decided, hey, | want to revive | mean, we have this
happen all the time people go out there, they do a little marketing campaign, or they do something and they end up
with a bunch of people on their list. And then they ignore them for weeks or months or years. And also they're like,
okay, now | got a deal. And | want to rekindle these relationships, how do | do that without making it appear that the
only reason I'm doing this, | really don't care about them. But now that I've got something to sell them on sudden, |
want to get back? Well, you have to move slowly, because you've broken trust. So you have to think about life from
their perspective. And you have to try to imagine or speculate what would be important to them. And what could
you give to them, that would be of interest to them and a value to them, but would be very, very low on the overt
agenda, or risk or commitment side. Something that they aren't going to immediately smell hidden agenda. And it
could be something simple. | mean, again, | go back to what | said at the top of the session is that there's a lot of
things happening in the news right now. And it could be that, hey, | just saw this thing happen in the news. And I'm
going to use precious metals because that's kind of hot topic for me right now. I've been paying attention and
then they'll tell you, and they're going to tell you what, 20% IRR or tax gains or preservation of capital or blah, blah,
blah, whatever they tell you what your next thing is, Oh, that's great. Now, tell me how did that come to be important
to you? What's the plan for that? Now you're driving towards the Y without sounding like an annoying four year old.
But you got to get to the y. And | remember doing this roleplay with Michael flight at the sales training, and he told
me the what and | still remember it to this day, you know, he was dependent upon institutional investors who wanted
to diversify, want to get his son involved. And there, you know, so he had things he wanted. But that's not what he
told me to start with. In the beginning, he told me, you know, he wants to learn how to raise money, want to learn?
And | said, Oh, it's interesting. So what what's the motivation behind that? And then he began to open up. And then |
began to really get to the emotional connection, the why behind the what? So be disciplined to go through that
cycle. That's the touch the heart. And then when you think you've heard them, you stop and you repeat it back to
them Scott's. So you know, just want to make sure I'm tracking with you. What I've heard you say is, this is what
you're interested in. This is why it’s important to you. And if you have this, then then it’s going to make a big
difference in your life. Is that right? Is Yeah, okay, so now you're taking the things that were in his heart that he didn't
know, a lot of people have stuff in their heart, they don't know. That's why they pay shrinks, right? shrinks, talk to your
subconscious mind, pull it off. That's why they talk to pastors say go talk to people, like helped me understand myself,
because | got all this jumble going on inside me. And | don't know why. | don’t know myself, | need you to help me
talk to my inner me, because I'm worried. My conscious mind is subconscious mind. They're like not on speaking
terms. Most people are like that. And a professional salesperson is almost like a therapist is the ability to go in and
pull it up to the surface in a non threatening way. And then get someone to realize what it is they really want, and
why they want it. And then the hypothetical is, well, Scott, let me ask you this, I've got a couple of things. And I’m
excited because | think I've got something to fit the bill. And it could be ready as early as you know, the end of next
week. If | were to come back to you and put something in front of you the end of next week that had that gave you
this, this and this and gave you all the reasons you wanted. Is there any reason you can think of you wouldn't want to
take a look at it? What he knows he's being closed and his natural inclination is to say no, so you let him he’s gonna
say well, no, great. Uh, no, is yes. Because you just got a double negative, right? Is there any reason you wouldn't
know? That's a yes. Right. And again, these are | exaggerate the techniques when | do the roleplay so that you catch
them. In real conversation. It's so subtle. And when you're a master that people don't even know you're doing. | mean,
even people that are trained, | can do this to people that I've trained. And they still don’t know I'm doing and you'll
get there. | remember doing this | think it might have been no it wasn't Felicia was Monique. | remember doing this
with moody calm in a bar after a sales training. And | taught her the technique. I'd laid it out. And then we started
talking and | did the technique on her. And then and then at the very end she goes you just did it to me, didn't you?
Yep. All right, but it's always the same. It's always the same. So this is not a business a mass marketing. This is not a
business to sales funnels. This is not a business of online marketing. This is a business of human to human contact
you connecting with another human beings heart, finding out what they want, and why they want it, why they really
want it what they're willing to do and not willing to do to get it and then showing their intellect, their brain, how you
and whatever you're offering them can get them there. Because after the hardest place you order with the brain. The
brain is not looking to say no, it’s looking to say yes, and all you have to do is give it enough proof. To make it believe
that yes is the right answer. Most of us jump directly to the proof and try to talk to the brain brain doesn’t have the
order brain says no, because it has no reason to say yes, most people don't know how to talk to the heart. But true
selling is about talking to the heart. All right. And | think if | recall from your background, you're probably pretty
skilled at that. And so if you've got a pastor's heart, then just love on them. Right, because that’s what it is, you're just
helping them sort out their inner demons, it's just investment related, not not spiritual, at the end of the day, people
are trying to change or they wouldn't be talking to you. This is about transforming their financial future. That's why
you're there to help them. And they will feel that motivation, they will feel that spirit in you. And they need to, they
need to, because there's a lot of snake oil salesmen in this business, and if you can, if you can really develop a
reputation of being somebody that is is both ethically strong, what | call character, and, and and highly capable,
which would be competency. They trust you and your ethics and your competency, you'll go far. And there's other
things they need to trust, your commitment and your capacity. Right. But But the first two you can you can make it

go a long way just on the first two. Right? Did that answer your question? Billy, you got something | see you waving?
O
O)

to add value to a group of people and to demonstrate our expertise. And as we did that, we would individually end
up in sales engagements where we would end up with the interview, obviously, when I'm doing it, I'm interested in
their mortgage business, or at least was at the time, Robert and Bob, were interested in the real estate business, and
the lawyers were interested in the legal business and so on. But you know, if | was doing that today, knowing what |
know now, and having the access to this tool, one of the things that I'd be doing is getting together with that leads
group ona regular basis, and doing sales training, role playing, if you've been through the sales course, you know
what that's like, and how powerful it is, it's one thing to sit there and watch it. But it’s another thing to immediately sit
down with someone sitting in the role of buyer you in the role of seller, and a third person as an observer, who is
going to take comments, and then you do a mock sales interview. And you accomplish a couple of different things.
Obviously, you drill for skills. And that's important and you learn by doing number two is you're either learning about
or demonstrating and telling the other people about your product or service. And the more they know about you and
your product and service, the more easy it is for them to be able to refer people because they understand who you
are, what you do, and how it benefits people. You're also training them how to not just uncover the opportunity
they're looking for, but to uncover opportunities for everybody in the group, because a healthy group is always
bringing in leads for everybody else in the group. In other words, you're training these people to be your salespeople.
And of course, at the same time, you're adding value and strengthening your bond and going from being kind of a
network to an alliance. And | do think those words are different and they mean things. So and of course as the
ringleader, and you're bringing the content and the administrative or the facilitation putting the logistics together,
you're kind of in control. And you have the better relationship with everybody in the group. So it's more touch points.
It just works on every level. So there's no reason not to do it other than time. And | think that the return on time is
very, very high. Well worth doing. | don't know if anybody is already doing that. It's something I've been suggesting
for a long time. If you are and you have feedback, I'd love to hear it. If you're not then | just encourage Everybody to
go do it. And then as you have experienced with it, one of the things that you can bring back to this particular forum
that we have once a month, is whatever feedback you have whatever is working, whatever's not working, we can
learn together how to make those groups really sing. But the more people you have out singing your praises, and the
more people whose value who you're adding value, because here's the thing about loyalty, people will be loyal to
you, in direct relationship to how much personal growth and professional growth they experience, as a result of your
involvement in their lives, people will be loyal to you in direct proportion to the amount of both personal and
professional growth they experienced as a result of the involvement in your life, your involvement in their lives. So
when you're adding value to other people, and they're growing, both professionally and personally, they're going to
have your back. And eventually there'll be part of your growth, too. Anyway, so another little monologue, there
hopefully are some value in that Michael flight. | see that you're on onboard. | know you have a question. So let's let's
handle that right away.

11:05

Yeah, |, | thought Stacy was gonna read it off. So | forgot what my question was, | apologize

© Russ 11:12

Oo
O)

that it had to do with selling a blind fund.

11:16

Oh, that's right. That's right. Okay. Yes, um, we are in the process of putting together we've got the pitch deck and
everything. And we're going to launch a blind fund in September. And, you know, if you had any recommendations as
to how you would do that, I'd be interested in hearing a little bit about that.
