JO

JO

32:38

lam I'm just the truck.

Russ 32:40

Okay, that’s okay. | just want to make sure if you have a question, you get a chance. So you're a little late to the
party. So we we answered the two questions. We don't have any other questions. So | guess I'll just open it up to any
of you. Billy, you have a question? Are you just waving? Hi to Kelly? unmute your mic? No, I'm back on here. Okay,
great.

33:04

So the so one of the one before that conversation with Yun ratio about the debt fund, obviously, but | was actually
gonna ask about that. Because there is a lot of change over in lending, as we know it, especially the cmbs markets as
well as banks, two different conversations there. But | do see an opportunity there for on the debt side. We learned
this firsthand, as far as equity is a lot more expensive the debt | ended up going in, but we learned that firsthand by
by giving a little bit too much for the last deal and want to get off to a more of a debt Partnership, which led to why
would you do a debt fund? | know what that looks like, | know how to structure it. what it was that was like Mauricio,

as far as can you do? Can you do a blind fun for debt?

Mauricio 33:52

And, yeah, | think most funds tend to be nice. Yeah, | would say most funds are debt funds. And the way | like to do
them is | create, again, the syndication LLC, which | can only call lending the lending LLC. When you create the LLC,
you raise the capital in the LLC. And the sole purpose of that LLC is to make loans to someone. Most of the times,
they're to yourself, by the way, so a lot of times you've got your own project. Let's say in Ben's example specific, he’s
got his assisted living facility, he could create a debt fund where he raises money into his lending LLC, with the sole
purpose is going to loan money to his assisted living facility at some predetermined interest rate and predetermined
terms. And so all of that would be discussed ahead of time. It's not really a blind font because you're you know
exactly what you're buying, you're buying. You're issuing a note or a series of notes, | actually like to do it more like a
line of credit because sometimes you just continually be pulling for different projects, so a line of credit or a
promissory note. And that's all pre determined up front. And that way you know your investors again, they know that
they're going to be getting APR or 10%, or whatever you figured out would be needed. But that's one way that we
were structured LLC money comes in, and then you're investing into basically buying promissory notes, right? You're
buying bonds, you could in theory do that for non, which | think is where you were going, Billy, not your own deals,
but maybe you know, there's some, there's some either distressed property or somebody else just needs money and
they need a loan and they can't get traditional financing. So you're coming up to step up the difference. And you can
certainly do that, well, you want to be careful there is we want to avoid that. And here's the tricky part. Typically,
when you're putting a fund together, or what we usually talk about, we're investing in real estate, right? And so when
we're investing in real estate, we don't have any issues or concerns about all the issues you have when you invest in
securities. But when you buy a promissory note, when you invest in a note, the question becomes is that note
considered a security. And so what you're trying to do there is you want to make it sort of a quote unquote, a real
estate related transaction. So the note ideally, would be secured in first position, because that way, it’s, | think that
one's as clean as we can get. That's the whole issue of notes, as is a mess. But that’s a clean one. Because at the end
of the day, if you don't pay them back, then you end up with the properties, it's it's just a different structure. But at
the end of the day, you're investing in the real estate, if they don't pay you back, they default, you take it over. But if

it's an unsecured promissory note, or if it’s maybe a promissory note and second or third position that may not have
_JO

JO

JO

banks are just dealing with these but private investors don't have that problem. So private investors can take a little
bit more risk to gain a little bit more yield. So just again, to use the time that we have and | think this is an interesting
topic, if this is not interesting to you, and you're on the call, you can drop off. And of course if you're watching this
after the fact you can just click away and that's fine won't hurt anybody's feelings. By

50:00

Question for Mario later. | mean, as soon as we get done with this topic,

Russ 50:04

oh, okay, well then | want to make sure that we we cover that. But let's just go ahead and go there we can, you know,
| was going to go down a different path and | don't want to open up a can of worms. Let's take advantage of ratios

time only here.

50:18

Okay, I'm Raphael, you're familiar with that hotel Steakhouse project | was gonna do in West Texas. Anyway, it's been
quite a while since | had talked to you about that. The so | have a question | have on that is how do we structure the
operating agreement to handle the city is is currently invested, committed for 450,000 to the project, they've already
deeded the property to us. But they contacted me at right after this COVID thing, we've been six weeks shut down.
And they they want this project to go. So they're so determined they want the project so much that they up there in
their their agreement, they offered to invest a million and a half, and how we structure that we'll have to determine if
some of us can be debt. But | think | think up to a million of it is going to end up being a grant. So how do we
structure that and they're also willing to cosign on the on the debt if they need to. So you got some thoughts on how

we ought to look at structuring that. Is it

Mauricio 51:35

I'm sorry, is this a private equity group that's kind of coming in for this amount? Or is it that no, it's

Blige

the city, it's the economic development for the city.

Mauricio 51:47

| mean, | know how detailed you want to get into it. But typically, when you when you have a large, either institution
or large investor that you want to give some type of sounds like you may want to be giving them a preferential
treatment, maybe they're, they're going to be senior to your other investors, or maybe that's going to be partly debt
or equity, what we would do on the operating agreement side on the structural side is we would create a separate
class just for them, because when we create a separate class just for them, we can treat them however, we want to
treat them. And it'll be different from the next class, which will be your sort of your regular investors kind of like a
preferred stock and common stock. And as long as you're disclosing that to your investors, and letting them know
Jo

that, hey, look, there's another player, and they're gonna get preferential treatment, or they're gonna get different
treatment. And as long as your current investors are okay with that, then you can do that. But that's probably the
mechanics of how you would deal with it. And obviously, in terms of ideas, | think we should probably talk about that
offline, to have some kind of, you know, structural things, but but that's how you would address the issue of having a
large institution of private equity or bank or whatever, what maybe even a whale of an investor that you want to get

preferential, you just create a separate class.

Russ 52:57

Okay, yep. Yeah, contact me, the CO investor, they'd be the B investor and all your little fish investors would be the A
investors, something like that. You know, in the way you laid it out in your agreement.

Mauricio 53:12

Yeah, just connect with me offline. Kelly, I'm happy to walk it through on a phone call or something and as well as
anybody else who wants to, you know, pick my brain offline, I'm always happy to do that.

Russ 53:20
Okay. But Kelly, that sounds promising. That's exciting.

53:24

Yeah, that was amazing. | mean, they called us and says, this is this is important, we don't want you guys to back

Russ 53:29

out. Well, it goes back to this idea, Robert, and | just got done recording a radio show where we were talking about,
you know, kind of setting your, your mentality, for positivity, in an environment where there's so much negativity,
because really, as bad as everything is, and it's bad, there's so many good things that are going to happen, you
know, aspects of the business model or the the models that we have in society that aren't working are going to be
fixed. But there's also going to be very powerful players that are going to step in to fill gaps and looking to partner
with private enterprise. This is a classic example. There's an asset in a community that a local group cares about,
you're there they want to help you be successful. And when they think that you're going to need to back up while the
bank is backing up you've got you know, maybe equity stepping up. So there's, there's, you know, always going to be
that kind of stuff. So you just have to, you know, some people are sitting on the sidelines, just taking their lives
completely out of the game, waiting until the dust settles. | think that's a huge mistake. | think to see the
opportunities in the marketplace, the first thing you have to do is just open up your mind to the reality that they're
there. Once you accept that you'll begin to see them when you go out and start looking for that. deals are going to
get done. So keep us posted. Love to hear the details is the thing evolves because this thing should probably you
know We'll be happening all across the country and all kinds of different marketplaces. So if you have, you know, any
any information on that, just shoot it to me privately. | can kind of follow it in the news and maybe we can even get
one of their folks on the on the radio show and talk about it a little bit. think it's an interesting topic. Okay, well
JO

much too fast. Anyway, so | think enough said on that. Okay, so let's shift gears. Allison, you had a question, and |
think it's good to have you ask your question directly and that way if you want to embellish it or set some context,
the way Ben Did | think that was pretty effective? So why don't you unmute yourself and ask your question?

15:07

| will do that. So my question was about starting a fund. | don't have a particular fund in mind, but it wouldn't
necessarily be a blind fund. I'm not necessarily wanting to take that to the marketplace. So my question that |
remember was having to do with, if I'm starting, like, how do you how how do you do that with a fund? Or do you
start an entity, | think was the question | emailed in which entity is best. And, and | am kind of in probably Ben's
situation, where I'm just beginning to start relationships. And I'm talking to women about wealth building in general.
So that's kind of how I'm adding value to the marketplace is just making sure people know about real estate
investing and other ways that you can have your money make you money. So I've started kind of building a platform
around that, and building relationships that way. And so I'm always thinking, you know, | don't know that I'm going to
go out and just be my own syndicator apart from my husband, but | am kind of looking for more information about
maybe fund management and what that would look like.

Mauricio 16:20

Yeah, that's probably the hottest topic. In the last couple months, | would say, the vast majority, and |'m going to
make up a stat or probably 90% of my phone calls that I've had over the last couple of months have been people
asking about putting together funds. And so what | tell people is, is, the legal compliance is no different. There's
absolutely no difference from a legal compliance standpoint, unless you're doing a fund of funds, which which we
could get into if we want to, but I'm not going to go there today. In terms of capital raising, as always, you're raising
the capital, and we're going to pick 506, b five, or 16, whatever exemption we're going to look for, that's not going to
change, the main difference, again, pulling it back between a fund. And what | would call a project specific deal or
offering is that with a fund, you first raise all the money into your entity, and then you go out looking for whatever
asset you're gonna go invest in. As opposed to the traditional thing, you actually identify the property first you get in
a contract, and now you're looking to raise for that specific property. And so that the main difference really is going
to be a couple things, but the main ones really going to be in what your business plan looks like. or what you're
explaining to investors because when you do a project specific you have a you know, you have you can actually see
it, here’s the building, here are some Performa, you have some numbers, you know exactly what the game plan is
going to be for this particular property, you know, even increased rents increase occupancy, you know, blah, blah,
blah, you have all this story. And the investor can actually take that information, and they can underwrite it
themselves, they may think you're too conservative or too liberal, and they can rework the numbers and come up
with their own conclusion, whether this is a good investment for them. With the fund, they don't have the benefit of
that you're raising the capital, and they are essentially Betting on you at this point that they don't know what you're
going to invest in, you're going to give them parameters, right? So they're going to have an idea, right, you're going to
invest in real estate, you're going to invest in real estate in the US, you're going to invest in maybe multifamily, maybe
a certain unit size, maybe a certain geographical area. So you're giving them as it’s it's a it's, it’s a fine line, because
you don't want to give too many parameters that you constrict yourself. But you also don't want to do what you're
saying is just Well, | can do whatever | want. So it’s a little bit of a fine line and finding how much parameters you
want to give them. But essentially, you give them parameters, you give them some examples of the types of deals
you're looking at. And then they put all of their trust in you, the individual, they are betting on the jockey, much more
so than if you're doing a project specific. And so the business plan is going to look vastly different than a project
specific. And then of course, you know, the risk factors, from a legal standpoint will will change a little bit because in
addition to the usual risks, then again, they're going in a little bit more, more blindly than they usually would. But
that's the main the main difference. And depending on how the what | love about these fun, | actually had a
conversation yesterday with somebody who spent an hour just talking about funds because there's so many
you know, have the lead magnet, you know, do those seven steps to have that relationship? It's the same thing as
physical real estate. You | think you already said that. But just to clarify, that's what | would be doing. Right?

Mauricio 23:32

Yeah. Yeah. From the compliance standpoint, exactly the exact same. The only thing | would add to that, and I'm
sure Russ has some thoughts on this, too. But with a fund if you're not, if you're not 100% sure yet, of what you're
planning on investing in, you're open to that, then the discussions you may have with prospective investors may be
more about? Well, | think Russ will tell you that too, anyway, finding out what it is that they want, you know, are they
looking for multifamily? Or are they looking for what type of asset class? Are they looking for cash flow? Are they
looking for a big appreciation? Because we're gonna get a huge discount, because of all the opportunity? What are
they looking for that you may then take that feedback and craft your fund around the feedback you're getting from
the marketplace?

Russ 24:11

Yeah, | definitely have some thoughts that | think are important. So | think let's just start with this. The idea of
creating a fund and not having a pre determined asset or a deal chosen means that you don't have as complete you
obviously, don’t have a pro forma, you don't have a business plan because you can't talk about what you're buying.
You can't talk about the market. You can't talk about the deal. You can't, you know, show the underwriting or the
numbers or any of that. So, when you're out there talking about a fund, actually doing a fund it can be a really good
thing because it forces you to focus on two things. Number one is what are the financial outcomes and risk tolerance
Have the prospect that's kind of where Mauricio was going there at the end, it's like, in other words, your job is to
match up, whatever results you are planning on going after, with whatever results, they want their money to
experience. And to dig a little bit deeper, they may have some prejudices or preferences in terms of the asset classes,
market types, or types of deals they would or wouldn't like to be in, or markets they would or would like to be in. And
so those are the types of conversations you have all the stuff we cover in the How to Win funds and Influence People
sales training, right, you have those conversations, you understand who you're dealing with, and what it is they're
trying to accomplish, because remember, you're offering a fund that is going to deliver benefits, not features. And
because you don't have a specific deal, you actually have less features to talk about. But when it does come to
features, there are a couple that you do have the first feature an important feature is your investment strategy, your
investment philosophy. In other words, what what is it that you're aiming to do? So you know, rather than go out
there, you can do it a couple different ways. If you're out there, and you're interviewing lots of prospective investors,
and you're just doing the preliminary conversations, and you don't have a specific offering, you're not looking for a
specific outcome, you just want to find out what the market has an appetite for. And then you decide you're going to
create a fund to go do that, and then you go find deals, then, you know, you feel relatively confident that those
people will say yes, because you're going to sell them exactly what it is they asked for, which is a great way to sell.
And of course it all presupposes you can deliver. The other way to do it is to have an idea in your mind about what it
is you think you want to do go have those conversations before you have an actual deal. And if you get approval, if
you get enough acceptance, then based on your investment strategy, your investment philosophy, hey, here's the
asset class | like here’s why | like it, here are the markets | like, here's why | like them. Here are the investment
strategies | like in terms of using debt using using equity. You know, how we're going to approach the whole thing,
and why | like it. And then ultimately, so so so so you've got the one set where you're one feature is just your
investment philosophy, your investment strategy. The second feature that you have is your team, your team and your
track record. So it starts with you who you are. And most of us never feel like we're adequate. Because candidly, most
of us aren't. And so what we have to do is we have to go associate with other people who make us look a whole lot
better than than we are, because they make us a whole lot better than we are can't just be show, it’s got to be real,
right, if you're going to put somebody up on your advisory board, you know, just from an integrity perspective, you

ought to really have the right to be or the willingness to pay to pick up the phone and call and get their advice when
process of updating the technology. The platform has been Ok, up to this point. We think it can be a lot better. It's
one of the projects that the team has been working on for quite a while. So it's a bit of a heavy lift. But if I'm sure if
you go in there and search by Murray CEOs name, you'll find the content that he’s created and you can you can find
that there. So Ben, do you have any other questions about that? Is it pretty clear?

Ben 10:02

No, | mean, it's crystal clear. So it sounds like I'm actually okay to educate and provide some education around that

up until they actually do the deal. So that's great.

Russ 10:13

Yeah. And | think you're wise to be conservative. As the syndication movement grows and becomes more of a threat
to Wall Street, excuse me, one day, they're gonna wake up. And when they do, they'll pull the chain of the, the SEC,
because | tend to think that the government works for wall street. And maybe that's me just being cynical. And every
once in a while, there’s a theatrical slap on the wrist, but for the most part, they can do whatever they want. But
whether that's sure or not, doesn't really matter. The fact of the matter is, is that at some point, the SEC may decide
to come in if a bad actor somewhere and sweep out a lot of the people that are on the fringe. And because there's
so many things that you can do, that are well inside the lines, there’s no reason not to stay inside the lines, except
you have to avail yourself of opportunities like this to make sure that you're doing that. So and | think the other major
principle that everybody just always needs to remember is that even though we're interested in getting telling
somebody about our deal, and getting them to say yes, and filling out the paperwork, that's about this much in the
overall cycle. And there's a whole lot in the beginning of the cycle that's really important to the prospect. And that is
the awareness of the opportunity, the courting, really getting to know and trust, the purveyor of the opportunity. And
then when the opportunity comes, understood, understanding the context of which the opportunity is set in, which is
going to be the marketplace, the product niche, the demographic it serves. And that's all before you get into a
specific deal with a specific, pro formas specific set of numbers. And so there's a lot of things you can be
communicating either overtly, or by just putting pieces of information into the stream and letting people assemble
the pieces in their mind. And | think the art of marketing and brand building is a lot about doing that is is finding
ways to give people pieces of it knowing you don't have to give them the whole story. In the first setting. If you
realize, if you look at it like courting, and you say, Okay, | found somebody I'm interested in, | would like to have a
long term permanent relationship, which is, | hope, the way you look at all of your investors, then you're going to go
on a series of dates, a series of discovery interludes, where you're going to share details about your life, and as those
go well, you'll go a little bit deeper, you'll become a little bit more intimate trust will build. And at some point, you
cross over a line and you get married. The same thing is true here. And if | think marketers of syndications would
approach the entire process with that same level of care, that they would somebody that they were considering to
be a lifetime partner, and they would put their best foot forward because that's what you do. And then continually
give them pieces of it. And as they can handle it, and as they want more, you give them more, and at some point,
you've incubated them, and they're ready to actually hear your proposal. And if they like your proposal, based on
everything you've done up to that point, then they say yes, and so every sale is almost like a marriage. And then of
course, you've got to, once you've got them as an investor, you've got to re engage them the same way you do in
your marriage, to keep keep the fire going, keep them interested, you know, and realizing that it's not quite as
exclusive as a marriage, which means they, they could go have other boyfriends or girlfriends as you would. And so
you're always going to be competing, if you will to for their attention and affections. But if you look at it that way, it
really changes the whole dynamic of selling. And | think that if there’s so few people in this business that approach it
that way, that you really will be a breath of fresh air. If you do that. And | think you'll find people who are very
attracted to you so but you do have to make sure while you're doing all that, unlike in dating, you got to make sure

that you're not violating the law and you know, somebody who's gonna come in on the outside and go Hey, too
Ben 02:21

So just to get a little background, where we're at is we are working on finalizing the location for a residential assisted
living project. And actually, we're kind of up in the air where we may buy an existing one, or we may just buy a
property and then convert it into an assisted living. And Mauricio, | know you've touched on this some before, but
maybe just getting a little bit of specific guidance to make sure | don't get out of out of alignment. I've been very
hesitant to post anything on social media about residential assisted living, or the market or anything like that. And |
didn't know if that was wise, or if you would encourage me to post things generically about why | think that's a good

market, or if | should just keep holding back and keep things more to a general real estate perspective.

Mauricio 03:15

Great question. Let me pull it back a little bit, just to kind of lay the context. As you guys should know, by now, when
you're raising money, remember, we either have to register or we have to find an exemption to the registration right
and or it's illegal, as | like to say, and most of you are going to rely on 506 B, which prohibits advertising. And so if
you're relying on any exemption that prohibits advertising, this is the question that comes up a lot is what can | say
on social media? What can | not say on social media? Is this post Okay, is that post not okay? And, and | have
spoken quite a bit about this, because | think it’s one of the three biggest issues and mistakes that that a lot of
syndicate, especially first time syndicators are having a look, my recommendation is that if you have an active deal,
ongoing, | would stay away from social media, relating to real estate, | mean, you can post about your cats and your
kids or whatever. But But | think you're playing with fire if you have an active deal, because the SEC views an offer,
which is what what you potentially are doing on social media very broadly, it’s kind of like that definition of a
security, it’s very broad. And it includes not only specific, you know, specific requests for your investment, so
obviously, it includes Hey, I’m raising money for an assisted living facility call me You know, we're looking for 100
grand, but it also includes conditioning the market, right and so anything that kind of drums up interest about your
deal may be considered conditioning the market which would be an offer, and so it’s just not black and white, it's
very gray. It's very facts and circumstances. And so | think the Safe, safe play, is to stay away because anybody can
argue that anything really is is is, is conditioning the market and so | typically then say, Well, what can you What can
you do in between deals, which is really when you should be looking for additional capital anyway, it’s in between
deals if you haven't done a syndication before. And so your question fits into that period, you don't have a deal right
now. You right? You're thinking about one, you're you're starting getting ready for one, but you're not in contract, you
haven't hired him? Or maybe you have it. | mean, are you already talking to people about a particular offering that
you have?

Ben 05:24

So | would say no, | am? Well, | guess let me know if I'm getting outside of the boundaries here. But like, so folks that |
go to the gym with folks that I'm working with, I'm letting them know, Hey, this is something that we're looking at to
gauge some interest. And | do have a lot, | have actually a surprising amount of folks that are saying, Hey, I'm
interested. Now I'm not. | know that they may not actually put money in the bank. But we're probably two months
out, | would say from actually finalizing the business plan and drafting up like a ppm. So

Mauricio 05:59

that's kind of working, you do not currently have an offer. And so | think you have a lot more leeway when you don't
have an offer. And so here's what | would tell you or anybody else who's in between deals, and this would really apply
Also, if you were in a deal, | would just recommend not going there. There's two things you can always post about on
social media, right? One of them is informational background on you or your company, the SEC has been very clear,
JO

the equity. So if they default, you don't end up with the property, you may have to go down the path of figuring out is
that a security or not, and if it is a security, am | acting as an investment advisor, which is kind of the place we don't
want to go if we if we don't have to, but But yeah, we do debt funds all the time. And ideally, you know, again, if it's a
third party, you can probably negotiate that, you know, per loan, because it’s an arm's length transaction, if you're
loaning to yourself, because you've decided to structure your deal as debt as opposed to equity, then | like to do it
predetermine. We're just we're just raising capital, and we're going to invest into my projects, conflict of interest,
conflict of interest, but we disclose that, and these are the, these are the terms of the note. So they know, assuming
you pay the note that they're going to be getting 8%. And you can at that point, actually do it monthly, because you
know exactly what the number is going to be every month. So you can set up an automatic hch. And people really
enjoy getting monthly checks as opposed to quarterly checks. So that's how | would structure a debt fund.

37:28

What about compliance, stuff like that the term here is tilt, tilt, or thrift? Does that get into that fund, kind of trigger
all that registration, where you get big cap to become become a tilt?

Mauricio 37:44
When you say, I'm not falling in the tilt, so maybe Truth in Lending.

Russ 37:48

So there's a lot of mortgage regulation coming out of Dodd Frank, most of that is in residential one to four. But that's
actually the topic that | wanted to take offline with humor ratio. So because | do think, you know, I'll just say this, |'ll
explain the reasons why | think right now is an amazing time to be thinking about putting together a debt fund. |
think that we don't know, when we're on the equity side of things, if we're catching a falling knife, there's still
probably a lot more bloodletting to occur, as we're on the front end of this economic crisis, which could easily turn
into a financial crisis. But the feds answer has been to drop interest rates to zero. And it's pretty clear, | think, to the
whole world, they're not going anywhere fast, they're going to be down low. And if you have liquid capital, and you're
looking for yields, you're not going to find them in banks, or CDs, or bonds. And so income investors, people who are
averse to the risk of equity investing are going to be hungry for yield. And at the same time banks and Billy, you
know this better than | do, right now, for the exact reason | just explained because the equity markets are in trouble.
And because the bond markets are over hypothecated in a marketplace where interest rates are bouncing of zero,
meaning that we have a very frail financial system from a credit market and banking perspective. They're going to
become very tight in their lending. And so there's going to be a whole bunch of borrowers that are on the margin of
good quality borrowers that are going to fall out of the good quality range as far as the institutional lenders are
concerned. And they're going to be willing to pay more because they have, you know, whatever it is they're doing,
they have the capacity to pay more. But they’re not going to have access to conventional markets. And so | think
alternative markets, private markets are going to be a great answer for them. And | think that so we can match up
the opportunity for capital that is seeking yield in a secure position with borrowers who are of decent quality and
assets that are of good quality, that are just too small to fit into the world that the institutional investors are going to
want to play. And during that period, there's going to be a lot of opportunity. And | think we're on the cusp of that.
So Billy, since you know, this is a little off topic, but if you guys don’t mind indulge me. But Billy, you're you're kind of
in that space. What are you seeing right now from the lenders? are that are, you know, my suspicion is that the
tightening has begun? Is that what you're seeing?
jt

40:41

Yeah, | mean, as of right now, so you watch the recording future, June 3 2020, we're coming out of the COVID.
lockdown, and lenders are starting to open up for business | wrote about this on Monday. But as as prognosticated, it
was they're going back to lower low values, and they're going back to higher rates, because cmbs did not get bailed
out. So there's true opportunity costs, true market market pricing for these rates, seeing a couple term sheets come
by right now. But they are your leverage points is very, very low bank lending. on commercial space, virtually non
existent mainly because they've deployed so much capital from the SBA, PPP that they are just now trying to figure
out what's gonna happen with the rest of the funds. He has been forgiven or anything like that. But they're they're
very, very, very scared in the bank lending. Now they say they're still lending as guidelines allowed, guidelines has not
changed. But if you know bankers, and bank lending, when you get into underwriting credit committee, the questions
can be asked, how was he affected? How's his bar affected during the crisis? Did they go on forbearance from us or
somebody else? Or did they make it through what kind of liquid they have, they're sure as heck not going to be doing
cash or refinances on properties, they're not gonna take someone else’s headache on like that. Purchase wise, you
know, you can pretty much assure they're going to underwrite to a higher vacancy standard, and probably doing
more aggressive capturing of escrows for payments at least six to 12 months, probably through 4, | just love to sing
right out because they they're optimistic about what has happened. But also, there is a very realistic people | see in
2008, they want to make sure that people can ride this thing out, and you're not gonna get left.

Russ 42:47

Well keep me posted, you know, my gut tells me that conventional lending is going to get a little bit snug, that
income investors are gonna read, they're gonna struggle with finding yields, and | think there's going to be an
opportunity to match borrowers and capital on the debt side, that'll allow syndicators, some vibrant business to do.
Well, we're waiting for the equity side of things to come back. And as long as you're underwriting your collateral and
markets, well, | think those are our deals you can probably do with a fair amount of confidence that even if the debt
ended up going bad, you'd end up with a quality asset and a quality market, and probably at a decent price. So it's a
it's a small window of opportunity, you know, we'll see good last year or two. But | think we're still on the front end of
it. You know, that’s what they say about experiences, the thing that helps you recognize a mistake, when you make it
again, in this case, you know, 2008, | learned a lot. And I'm seeing a lot of the repeats of that the differences. I'm not
out of position as | was last time, | wish | would have understood syndication | grew to understand the opportunity in
syndication, coming out of 2008. And that’s when we started teaching syndication we we were already syndicating,
but we were only on the equity side. And then we were dealing primarily with mom and pop real estate investors.
And so we, we were too isolated in a demographic that got hit. That's why | started realizing when you look at
markets, you have to look at both geographies and product niches, but you also have to look at the demographics.
And | realized that you needed a more fluent demographic, if you want it to be resilient, because affluent, people are
more resilient because they can take a bigger hit, and still have money left to invest and in fact, have a desire to
invest because they want to rebuild what they lost, but they're not there. They realize they're going to have to take
risks to do it. And when you go approach those types of people with opportunities, based on value in a collapsed
market, they have ears to hear people that are on the other end of those deals that are losing those deals. Because
they were out of position, they don't have ears to hear and they don't have capital. And so even though Robert and |
knew how to syndicate in 2008, we didn't have the right brand. And we didn't have the right network, to be able to
do it successfully for the environment we were in, we spent the last 10 years fixing that problem. So today, we're kind
of licking our chops, even though it's sad to see what's going on. It's unfortunate, but it’s not surprising. And we think
that all of you have a huge opportunity if you play your cards, right. So we're trying to increase the amount of
training and the amount of conversation we're having. But also encourage people pay attention, because you know,
each of you have your thumb on the pulse of a specific area, a specific niche, a specific group of people, and we
need to continue to share with each other what we're seeing and hearing. Because right now, | have an investment

thesis, | have a hypothesis, | need feedback from guys like Billy that live in the space to tell me what's really going on.
CC - June 3, 2020 - Q&A LIVE Call on Legal and
Compliance wi...

@ Mon, 9/27 7:38PM @ 56:01

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

fund, deal, investors, people, question, mauricio, opportunity, debt, capital, equity, market, project, syndication, billy, money,

lending, bit, invest, property, bank

SPEAKERS

Russ, Mauricio, Ben

Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club, this is Russ, we are here and | don't know what we're calling this segment, but it’s |
guess we're gonna call it ask the mentors. And in this particular case, we've got attorney Mauricio rolled with us, who
is of course, our resident sec compliance guru. And we've got a couple of questions from a couple of members who
are also on with us, Ben Dickey, and Alison Brown, and | guess riding shotgun his husband, Billy, so we're, we're
excited about having everybody on board. And, and, you know, the purpose of this is really to deal with real world
questions. Our whole mission with the syndication mentoring club, is not to create some scripted, college like
curriculum, formulaic thing that people go through, and then graduate and think they know how to syndicate, we
think you learn by doing, you learn in the real world, you learn by pushing yourself to the limits of your ability, which
is a scary thing to do, especially when you're managing other people's money. And the mentoring club gives you a
place and ask the mentors in particular gives you a place where when you get stuck, when you hit the wall, when you
get in over your head, you can run and get help. Obviously, you should each have your own individual teams,
advisory teams that you can go to. But this is a great way for us to tap into the tribal knowledge because probably
whatever you're facing whatever questions you have other people in the program, either have those questions or will
have those questions. And as we continue to develop Well, we're in the founding level of the program, the founding
phase of the program, we're going to build out this library of real world content. And so we'll just start at the top here.
With with Ben. So, Ben, do you have your question? Do you want to ask it? Or do you want us to just read it and ask it

on your behalf?

Ben 02:15
I'm happy to ask it. Okay, why

Russ 02:18

don't you ask it that way, we hear it in your own voice. Sure.
anyway, guys and gals really appreciate the time today Special thanks to our attorney Mauricio roll for making
himself available for us for the hour. And let's do this again. Just send your questions into membership. And when we
get enough questions lined up, we'll schedule another call. And and we'll keep the keep the rally going. Okay.

OQ 55:44

Thank you, Raphael. Thanks. All right. Thanks.
JO

permutations, | think one of your questions was how to structure it. entity wise, it's the exact same thing again, you
would create an LLC, we always use LCS. And that would be your syndication LLC. And so that’s where the money
would come in. And then from there, assuming you're going to buy multiple assets, multiple properties, and they can
be different asset classes, you could buy multifamily and self storage or or assisted living facilities. You would
typically have those in their own LLC as well. So you would eventually have the fund which is your syndication LLC,
be the sole owner of these sub LLC that would actually own the assets that way just from an asset protection
standpoint, you cover yourself so if something happens to one of the properties, the other ones don't do that, but
from again from premise Structural standpoint, it's very similar to a private offering. The biggest thing | think, not
maybe not the biggest, but some other factors that you want to consider when you're doing a fund is, you know, exit
strategy would be another one of the big, big questions, you have to ask yourself with a project specific, you know,
you bought the property, your your plan is to, you know, a value add, you know, stabilize the rents than in four years
or five years, you're gonna sell or refinance, whatever the exit strategy is, with the phone, you don't know, because
you haven't bought the property yet. And so typically, in a fund, there's some mechanism not to get too technical,
but there’s a mechanism that allows the investors potentially to come in and out of the funds, those are things you
would have a discussion with, with your attorney, how long does the investor have to be in your fund before they may
have the option to maybe withdraw and give you notices that they want to get out? Then you've got to start thinking
about how to replace that capital? Are you liquidating assets to get people out? Or are you raising additional capital
to sort of fill in the thing, so exit strategy is a big a big consideration. And then the other big problem that a lot of
people have, especially, especially these days, because they're they're preparing these funds, with the anticipation of
having some opportunities down the line, but they don’t know if that down the line is next month or two months from
now or six months from now. So one of the questions that we have to address is, let's keep it simple. If you raise a
million dollars into your fund, and you can't deploy it for the next six months, for example, because you're looking for
opportunities, that money, that million dollars is just sitting there in your account earning no interest. And so there's
an opportunity cost for your investors that you need to think about an address. And there's several ways we we quote
unquote, fix that or address that. The two most common ones would be the first one is like, you wouldn't say it this
way. But you know, tough like that, that's the investment is going to sit there not earning anything for the next six
months. But over the long term, we're going to do so great that you know, when you average out the five years, or
however long you're going to be in there, it doesn't really matter. But some people are starting to sort of just take a
smaller percentage at the beginning. So let's say you raise, let's say your investment, the minimum investment is
$50,000. Well, maybe instead of taking the $50,000, up front, like we usually wouldn't an offer and a project specific,
you just take 10% of that, right? You take $5,000 sort of as a deposit. And then when you are ready to deploy, once
you get into contract to identify something, you essentially do a cash call, you request the remaining 45, within a
really fast period of time, two or three days, | mean, they've got to be ready. And if they don't give you the remaining
45, then they're going to forfeit that five grand, and there's no magic number can be 10% 20%, whatever you feel
comfortable that really has some skin in the game, because another concern you have is | may commit to you today.
And then six months later, when you're looking ready to deploy | may have had change of circumstances medical
emergencies will have you and | may not have the money to give you and so you want to think about those concerns
of what do you do when you have the money? If it’s just gonna sit there for six months? What are the some of the
things we can do to address those problems? That's probably another kind of big, big high level consideration on a
fund.

Russ 23:02
So Oh, go ahead, Allison.

23°05

Yeah, | was just gonna say, that was great. One, one thing, | think | already know your answer. Mauricio, it's the same
thing, when when I'm not anywhere near ready to actually be raising money, but when | am, it’s that same thing of,
Anyway. Okay. So | think that we're coming up at the top of the hour, we don't want to go longer than an hour. Kelly,
while you've been sitting there, did you think of a question you wanted to ask the attorney? Well, we got him. It was
like you have to,

46:13

JO

it wasn't written relation to the attorney like | was. This morning, | got on a call with Marcus and Millichap on, they
were talking about the medical office market. And | have a medical office project that we'd kind of put on hold. And
the investors are now squeezing me saying, Hey, we want we don't care if you move forward. But we just want
something to happen. Either mover, or return our money. And so I've looked at it. And that was a great, great show, |
mean a video call, man, a lot of real good input. And it really sparked us to move forward with that. Nice, but our
main challenge that I'm going to see is the bank that approved it is going to want they if they've already told me if

we go forward, they want more more equity. So now I'm looking at

© Russ 47:10

my money, I've kind of heard that might be happening.

A 47:14
And they're a bank with institutional, their bank, their small bank, their hometown, but they're willing to do it. Still,
they just want more more equity. | was surprised they're talking 45% 40 to 45% equity, which | don't think we're
going to be able to do that on the deal. | think it's still at work. So | I'm glad I'm Sorry, I'm late here | had some things
but | wanted to pursue Billy some more. We're gonna we're looking for some other funding ideas and opportunities
for that. So

A 47:47

I'd be happy to help you out on that. But | think that’s the reality is the reality in the lending space. Basically, the the
banks are starving for money and deposits and they want to see some significant skin in the game a new kind of new
project, that's what's going to happen going forward, they'll partner with the Abyss getting much lower leverage
points, and and, uh, you know, to withstand the shock, so | don't know if | can find a different avenue for you. But |

can definitely talk you through maybe some strategy.

@ Russ 48:17

Well, and | think it goes back to what we were just talking about Kelly, the idea that your deal pencils with a certain
amount of debt. And it was budgeted to provide a certain amount of yield to the provider of that debt. And the
people, this local bank that originally had expressed interest in the deal, as originally submitted, are now kind of
changing, then what you have to do is look at Okay, what what is your deal able to provide? And could a private
investor or a group of private investors, let's say Billy and Alison put together a fund and your deal makes sense to
them? See, this is where there's going to be a lot of opportunity, because private investors are not hedging. A
leveraged balance sheet, we're a small reduction of capital, yields them insolvent. That's what banks are up against.
Banks are so levered that a little bit of destruction of capital, a little bit of bad debt completely wipes out their
capital. | mean, the Fed is levered, like at 100 to one, | mean a 1% reduction in their capital, they're insolvent. And
JO

you need it. Just to throw their picture up and say, Hey, they're on my advisory board. But if you never ask them for
your advice, it's as though they weren't there. And so but you build your advisory board, whoever your team is, if you
have people on your team, like staff, and they have great resumes use that. If you have you know technical people
that you're going to use that are going to be your vendors, whether it's your attorney, or CPA person who's going to
do the due diligence or drilling all the way down to whoever is going to do your underwriting, whether you're on the
debt side, and | know you guys are in the debt business, or whether you're on the equity side, the property managers,
the real estate brokers, whoever, whatever it is, so put together the most impressive team you can. And the good

news is when you're in the marketing phase of all that is you can create content that features some of your team
members and begins to build them up in the eyes of your prospects. And so, but those are the two main things, and
then and then at whatever point of engagement, you've already begun to set the table a little bit, going back to our
romance analogy, they started to fall for you and your team a little bit. And then when you go in there and you you
know, whisper in their ear, all the things they want to hear. In other words, you figured out what it is they want to buy,
I'm looking for passive income security, preservation of wealth, hedge against inflation, hedge against deflation,
something | can count on in uncertain times, okay, then certain assets, investment strategies and financing structures
are going to fit in that box and others won't. Or, you know, they may tell you, hey, I've got some spec capital, | really
would like to get a you know, 5x my capital over the next three to five years. If you can help me do that. We'll need to
take some risk that that's different. You may set up a fund with the idea that we We're going to have a percentage of
it that's going to do this a percentage of it that’s going to do this and a percentage of it that’s going to do that. And
you can either buy into the entire fund if you want those vary in exposure. So I'm going to create some diversification,
if you will, within my fund, or you could set it up so that you are going to create this team that's going to do all these
things. But investors can choose which fund like if you go to Vanguard, for example, one of the big mutual fund
companies, they have income funds, they have money market funds, they have equity funds, they have aggressive
growth, you know, small cap funds, and you can pick one, or you can invest in blended funds or things, you know, so
you want to give people the opportunity to understand what they're getting into what they should expect, what
you're what target you're aiming at. So they can make sure it’s a target they want to hit, who they're dealing with
you. And some idea about how you're going to go about it and who's going to help you get it done. When you do alll
that. | think then and this is where the legal kicks in. That's, that's where you have the ability to, you know, when your
subscription agreement to explain the risks, you know, one of the risks is, | may never find a deal that fits in the box,
which case your capital is going to sit idle, that's a risk, | may find a deal that looks good. And of course, the deal
may not work out, you know, we may get into a deal and not be able to close the deal. And you know, so whatever |
mean, you're going to have to break down what all those things are. But you'll find that even when you prepare those
documents, the risks are a little bit fuzzier, just like the deal is a little bit fuzzier, because you don't have a deal. But
the more clear you are on your investment, strategy and philosophy and your team, the easier both the task of
explaining to people what you're doing, and who's doing it, and what the risks are, are going to be. Does that make
sense?

32:08

Yes, yes, that that that gave me lots of good information, a few more things to kind of think through and start asking.
So that was very helpful.

Russ 32:16

| love the idea of having a fund and | think there's going to be a giant opportunity in debt funds coming up. In fact,
Mauricio, let's connect as soon as we get done with this, because | want to talk with you about that offline. Hey, Kelly
Fisher, | saw that you joined to the party, but | don’t have a question from you. Do you have a question? Are you just

eavesdropping? Get to unmute yourself.
you've got a business to run, you can certainly talk about your credentials and what you do and your company, kind
of boring stuff for stuff that you put on social media, a lot of people aren't going to post that to kind of you know, do
much. But the other thing you can absolutely do especially if you're not, you don't have an active deal is add value,
which is what you're doing. There's nothing wrong with you putting a report together on why assisted living facilities
is the greatest asset class in real estate, or why what market are you in then city Oh, but why Oklahoma City is the
greatest marketplace of all times, or why there's a huge demographic shift anything of value where you're not talking
about an offer, you're not talking about a specific deal you're educating the public about what you're doing. And
then when you do that, get some type of obviously a lead magnet get get get their phone number or their email,
take them off of social media, and then start having that relationship with them start that process and remember,
while may remember, but there's there's about six or seven steps that you must take from the time you get to
complete strangers or somebody off the social media requested your report or you're on a podcast and you got a
report on why assisted living is great, you get that email, then there's seven steps those we call the citizen VC steps,
the most important being having a conversation you know, on the phone and going to lunch with them having that
really great interactive question, but getting a questionnaire to them and just asking really detailed and pertinent
questions about their level of sophistication, their experience, their background, their net worth all that stuff, there’s
those six or seven steps that you take and then at that point once you establish that substantial substantive
relationship then you can offer them to your future deal and since you haven't gotten there yet, in theory, if you met
me today and | didn't know you and we spent the next couple of weeks getting to know each other pretty well and
then you say okay, it's been two weeks | feel pretty good about this we've documented our interactions we have a
substantial relationships you can then offer me that deal this this deal that you're working on in the next two or three
months. So absolutely so so | would definitely hopefully what I've been saying before on it hasn't discouraged you
from doing that because you would be value adding right okay, you're not talking about your prior success and you
have to remember like if you're pumping up your hey I’m I'm this expert syndicator and | typically get investors 20%
returns and I'm awesome call me that's a little bit different but if it's purely educating the public lead with education
you know education for effective action lead with education, get a lead magnet get it get a contact and then put
them through that process.

Ben 08:49

Okay, no, that's that’s very helpful | tend to be very conservative and so

Mauricio 08:56

yeah and if you want to look and if you want to you know any anybody I'm really on some dimension club side as
well if you guys want to email me your proposed posts and say, Look, I'm going to post this as this Okay, it's, it's fine.
I'm happy to look at the copy and I'm happy to give you my two cents on that. And then the other thing | think, Russ,
we do have on the platform, | don't know exactly where but | did do a five part video series on how to use social
media. | want to update a little bit but but a lot of the stuff that we talked about here is also in that video. So
wherever we can point people to that's that’s another place that we can point people to

Ben 09:30

thank you very much.

Russ 09:31

I'm sure membership can help you find that or if you can't find it, but there’s a search function. | know we're in the
