Russ 29:41

for a sec real quick membership. When you watch this, make sure you put a link to whatever piece of content we see
or just mentioned into the notes. So the people watching this in the future can find it. Okay, sorry, again. Yeah, don't
worry. | didn’t derail you.

Mauricio 29:57

Let's see right now. So there's eight steps where you can take whereas Miss Hayes is you mentioned that you these
some of the people on your list you've done business with before it sounds like they're you're already you know
people that have bought from you, | think those people are are safe in my opinion like those people you've done
business with before you have a substantive relationship with those people sort of extend, those are probably safe
people you can last you but everybody else you should have a substantive relationship. And you should establish that
subsidy relationship before you start your syndication because the rule is you have to have a pre existing substantive
relationship. And that means pre existing, the offering. So once you start your offering, and we can talk about what
that means. But once you start the offering no new people, you've got to have people you already know that
chemists have a relationship with and the main ones are, there's eight of them. It doesn't mean you have to do alll
eight or you lose, it's just it's just, it's best practice like the more the closer you get to all eight, the better. One of them
is in there that most people don't do. So let's do seven out of eight. But the main ones are sending out a detailed
questionnaire and I've been talking about this questionnaire for years. And | finally got my button here and got it so
I'll make sure | get that to membership. And they can post that on the the the window not the website, the portal.

And it's a really detailed questionnaire about their finances their experience, it's very similar to one when you're
applying, if you are applying for a brokerage account, and you want to go on margin or options, they asked you all
those questions, how many years I've been investing in options, there's a very detailed thing. So that's one for sure.
And then the second most important step is then to actually get on a phone call with them or meet them for lunch or
just have some one on one live interaction with them to probably go over the questionnaire. But you're really trying
to just get to know the investor while you're trying to figure out if this investor or more particularly your investment is
suitable for these investors. And the way you find out whether they're suitable, you're basically trying to find out do
they have that knowledge and expertise in business matters in financial matters, that they can actually evaluate the
merits and the risks of your particular investment. And the only way you're going to know that is by asking them a
bunch of questions. And then you're trying to invite them to ask questions of you because they need to figure out
what what's your investment philosophy, you know, what's your deals look like, and nothing wrong with showing
them a current deal, actually, they can invest in it, but you can actually show them a current deal. So this is what
we've got going on now. You're not eligible for it, but it will give you an idea of the kind of things we do. But anyway,
so you go through those seven or eight steps, you established substantive relationship at some point, you basically
make it up where you feel comfortable, you know, today's the day that I've crossed that threshold, make sure you're
documenting all this because because at the end of the day, it’s going to be your responsibility to prove the burden
of proof will be on you to show the regulator if it comes up five years from now, they may come back and say, hey,
how did you get to meet Steve, and you're gonna have to say, Well, let me look into my notes. I'm like, Oh, here we
go, | met him at this event, the real estate guys, you know, practicing whatever event and on this date, then | had a
phone call on this date, | know the phone call. And this date is just

Russ 32:59

one thing, if lawyers involved, please don't don't drag us into it. met them in pockets or someplace else.

Mauricio 33:10
make it you know, make a lot of money that's different. But if you're just talking about hey, | want you to meet our
acquisitions guy, he’s a graduate of so and so he worked with so and so for these years and all that factual
information about you where your company is allowed, yeah,

© Russ 46:10

JO

JO

position yourself and your team as subject matter experts and be very careful to stay in your lane. You know, you're
not a tax advisor, you're an investor. And so if you're going to talk about tax, just make sure that you bring a CPA like
when Dave Zook goes and does his tax retreats, he brings his CPA with him. And even though he branded himself as
a tax strategist, he’s very careful not to give anybody tax advice and when tax advice is being dispensed, it's coming
out of the mouth of a guy who's qualified to have that positioning. So if you do that then then by you can brag about
your team by documenting or not documenting but by demonstrating their expertise, positioning them as subject
matter experts so conditioning again is is like warming the audience up with a bunch of teasers Hey, you know check
your email and week because we're going to show you the greatest deal you've ever seen. Right? That kind of stuff.
All right, | think we beat that to death All right, we are at the top of the hour. | think we could probably squeeze in
one more quick question or comment if anybody has one.

47:13
Got one | don't know how quick it is though. Okay,

Russ 47:15

well throw it out there and we will talk fast

47:19

okay so I've we've been doing a lot of stuff zoom calls to other investor groups or meetup groups things like that |

was also on a did a syndication piece for reaps, which is the real estate investors of Puget Sound, it's pretty big
group of people. And there's, | continue to meet these people that just don't want to hear they keep trying to use the
joint venture as their escape, you know, and so I've made it very clear that, you know, unless this person is actively
participating at the same degree, the same level that you are, you know, they're really not this is not a joint venture,
you're, you're in syndication, so just was wondering, receive it through some other tips out there, because | know right
now, we have a lot of people in this group that are trying to do flips, things like that, where they’re out there looking
for some money partner, and and so, you know, again, from the way we see them put this stuff out on Facebook and
stuff, they're just violating this like crazy. So any other just ways to clarify that? Yeah, |

Mauricio 48:25

mean, a lot of people try and get around it with with the joint ventures. And again, I've always said the SEC, the
regulators don't care what you call it, or how you structure it or any of that stuff, all they care about is you know
who's generating the return if the returns are generated by somebody, you know, other than the investor, then it’s
going to be a security no matter what structure you use. It doesn't have to be equal, | think you mentioned in there so
just to one clarification, it’s possible that I'm gonna make this up but | can Murray CO is a full time job. | don't | don't
have time too much. But
JO

Russ 48:56
you definitely made that up.

Mauricio 48:59

I'm an under I'm really good at underwriting. That's the major part. Let's say I'm really good at underwriting. But |
don't have really that much time. But | can give you time for the weekends and you know, the evenings or whatever.
So my contribution may only be five or 10% of the whole thing, you may be doing the 90% of it, | may only be doing
10%. But just make sure that it's commensurate with that. So if I'm doing 10% of the work, you should be expecting
to have 10% of the of the joint venture, the challenge | see is is that, you know, they're bringing in all the money,
they're not doing much work and suddenly they end up with a 30% chunk of this thing where they're not really doing
anything other than being on meetings or something. So yeah, that's the key, they've got to be actively involved, |
would say proportionally with whatever their their percentage ownership in the joint venture is. And you don't want
to get too big. You know, | would happen at five | think after you get to over five people, it’s really hard to argue that
everyone is doing something actively, because you don't need five people to run or six people to run a real estate
deal. You can do it by yourself or with two people and maybe three but once you get to Four, five and six, it just starts
becoming a harder sell to say, Yeah, everybody was actively involved when you have nine people there, you know,

there's somebody, somebody's not doing work.

0311

So when someone's soliciting, like hard money, you know, | need a hard money alone to go get this thing over the
finish line. How do you distinguish that? |

Mauricio 50:21

mean, there's that's not joint venture stuff. | think there's other exemptions that maybe that's the topic and it’s
probably a good topic for another for another q&a or something. But you know, at that point, you know, maybe it’s
on a flip, for example, that you mentioned, flips are typically six month deals. And if you have a an investor who
comes in and it's, it's a promissory note that’s less than nine months to cure it in first position, that's probably a good
argument that it's not a security, by definition, notes under nine months are not securities. And if you if you secure it
in first position, that there's an argument to be made that you fit into one of the exemptions. It's called a family
resemblance test. But But whether a promissory note is a security is a whole new area that we can spend hours on
which we won't, but that so that's one way to do it. The other way is simply to just call it up, call it a security and just
like, you don't have to do a PPF. If they're accredited, if they're accredited person loaning you money, maybe you just
do a promissory note, throw in some risk factors, and you file a form D doesn't have to be a full blown ppm or
anything, when it's just a promissory note with an accredited investor. The challenge becomes when they're non
accredited, and they're trying to just you know, write you a check and get a return. And that's where it gets tricky, but
that's a that's a good topic that potentially rust, we should we should consider doing something about it, when is a
promissory note or promissory notes considered securities because they that that is a topic that comes up quite a bit,
and it's probably the most nebulous and convoluted as clear as mud topic out there. So it'll be interesting to kind of

do something with around that.

Russ 51:50
INUQS IW. It

Ryan, Did that answer your question? | did. Thank you. Yep, awesome. I'm going to jump in and just share a couple of
comments, one of the things because | remember that | was actually instrumental in putting that together, because |
just borrowed it from Silicon Valley stock raising, you'd have you know, your angel round, and then you'd have your,
your venture rounds that were ABC, and then ultimately, some type of a liquidity event where you went public. And
our equivalent to that was, you know, we would, we would have our Angel round, where we would get somebody to
syndicate just the getting the property under control under contract, that was it. And it could be $50,000 100,000,
whatever it was 200,000. And then once we had it under contract, and when we closed the deal, we took that person
out, or they could roll forward if they wanted to, at a predetermined profit, and we take them out as high as you
know, 20% annualized, because it was fairly, relatively high risk, especially It was a hard money deposit. And, and so,
you know, we paid generously, but in the overall scope of the deal, it wasn’t that much. And so it was a great way for
us to move quickly. Even if we were personally illiquid, which we were most of the time, our liquidity was our network.
And then when we would bring in the next round of people, we would take down the land, and that was it, and we'd
have the land, and then during the period of holding the land, we would entitle the land and do all the architectural
work, and then we would close that syndication. And that gave us a specific price point and date, so that we could
be relatively clear about what the deal was going to be. Now, we of course, had an obligation if we were selling to
round B, that round a was going to be selling at a premium to the street price, we had to justify that. Well, you know,
the challenge is, is that the street price, price is based on comparables, it's never ever going to be the exact same
piece of land, because in real estate, there's only ever one piece that’s exactly the one piece. So you'd have to be
able to justify that. And that has to do more with the real estate side. But | think In short, the advantages were that
you had entrance and exit points where people could get on or off the bus. And then along the way, you had
different re valuation points, so we didn't have to reevaluate midstream. In a long term deal. We had specific points
where we knew we were going to revalue the shares and B were more expensive than the shares in a, because we
had moved more towards completion there was less risk. And so that's the way it worked. That was one part of it.
And then the other part of it was as he getting on and off and doing the revaluation oh and on the audited financials
now we never had to do audited financials because it was actually cheaper just to start a new syndication than audit
financials to get new investors on the bus. Right. So they could roll back over if they wanted to, they could get out
and come right back in. Right so it was effectually the same but we would have a different mix because some people
get off and knock it back on and some new people get on so it was a legit different syndication. But it was a lot
cheaper to go through the legal work of reforming the entity and setting up the books and all that then then
auditing creating audited financials in order to bring investors who weren't part of the initial raise on board does that
make sense? Have any questions about that side of it Emory co did | miss state anything because

Mauricio 18:45

again, kind of looping back in this whole integration thing. | mean, ours was phase one phase two were pretty spread
apart but in theory now you could really bring it on several phases within you know, as long as it’s after one month
you can literally do one every couple of months and not worry about those integrations and the more | think about
I'm really literally thinking about it now out loud is is having that flexibility of using different exemptions every time
you go through the phase so you start off with maybe your friends and family and then when you run out of that
money then you jump to five more succeed to go advertise your deal and maybe ultimately you do a reggae to wrap
it all up because you can you know that's another thing there but yeah, that's | always think of those that that
structure because that question does come up every so often.

Russ 19:25

Well, and there's another piece of the puzzle too in general. | see you waving your hand so we'll get to in just a

second. is is that the idea of of shoot, |
Well, that brings up a different question to which is the notion of what really is audited financials, the way |
understand it is you're going to hire an auditing firm, a CPA firm, a third party firm, that is going to go in
independently, they don't have an agenda, their job is purely to verify an audit the financials. So there's a
compilation where you provide all the source documents, and they just put it together. And based on the documents
that you provided, that they don't validate, or verify, they compile the data and present it that is one level of
presenting financials from a CPA, the next level up is audited. And this is where the auditor the CPA goes through,
and they examine all of the source documents. And they every entry is so different than when you're underwriting an
apartment building. And the broker tells you or the seller tells you this is you know what the utilities are in blah, blah,
blah, you're like, this is what the rents are. And you said, Well, | want to see the rent rolls, | want to see the leases, |
want to see the utility bills, | want to see the tax bill, I'm going to my underwriting is going to go back to the source
documents that weren't provided or fabricated by you and your QuickBooks or your Excel, but came from the third
party. And if | really wanted to go further back, | would audit those third party documents like an invoice and a proof
of payment to an actual bank transaction showing that the money moved from point A to point B. And so you can
imagine the level of forensic accounting that is, goes into producing audited financials very expensive, there's a time
and a place for it. But mostly it’s based on big scale. And a lot of these things personally, my opinion and it's only my
opinion are in the law to prevent street rats like us from being able to compete with the big guys. Because the big
guys have to have enough profit to be able to pay off their fines and their bribes and all the things that allow them
to be shady operators, whereas we have to be more honest in our operations. But we can pass more of our profits
onto the customer, they can't compete with that when we aren't loaded up with those expenses. There's a sweet spot
when there's there's enough volume or scale, but you're not so big that you know you've got the big bureaucracy. So
some of these techniques, we're talking about our ways to kind of straddle the fence between being big and small.
Anyway, so | didn't mean to muddy the water, but it sounded like there wasn't clarity on what true audited financials
are. And | thought that would give me a chance to bring up the concept of a compilation which is a next level up
from you turning your books over, but a level down from an audited set of books. And of course, then again, like your
team, you know the quality of the auditor, if you hire, hire Joe, blow CPA from the local corner. That's one level if you
hire a, you know, one of the big accounting firms that's a different level. And the quality of those audits also if you're
savvy investor on the front end and this is when you're doing your due diligence, when you're buying a piece of
maybe a bigger deal. You know you're interested in it. Does the company have good errors and omissions insurance?
Because that's who you're making a claim against if those financials turn out to be bad, and how reputable are they?
And of course, if you're out there and you're trying to win skeptical investors, let's say you're going after family office,
are you going after people that you don't know that well, and you're going to prepare financial, prepare financials.
My advice, or my my, my, my opinion, my recommendation is that you, you think about who you're going to hire to
do the work and choose them not just for their ability to do the work, but choose them for the cachet that they bring
the brand and being associated with them and the credibility that will bring your deal. Okay, the Jana Did that
answer your question? You have any follow ups? You're good. Okay. Anybody have any questions about that? audited
financials? Okay. Well, the thing that | wanted to say came back to me, and then | will, | was busy doing that | forgot
it again. So it'll just keep rattling around inside this whole brain of mine until it shows up. Okay, but anything else?
You guys have that you want to ask Michelle, while we have him?

Steve Olson 26:07

I've got one. Okay, go, Steve. Hey, Mauricio, kind of a rookie question. So I'm sure day in the life for you, you get a lot
of those. So from kind of a unique angle. I'm one of the providers in the network for the real estate guys. But I've been
thinking for a long time | have access to a bunch of new construction, multifamily inventory. Why don't | syndicate
some of this stuff? And we have a large database of investors that have invested with us in the past, instead of
taking fee simple title to a four Plex, why don't | Why don't | take point and and buy 24 plexes in a project?

Russ 26:47

NAIAIL AWA BAAR Athans HAIR AN ChAWIA Nw tA RAALA AANA A HA AE tA ARnbA ns BA TARA RbAeR LAA AibA A AA BIE Ant KA AAA AL
IU46

Ryan, yeah, Mauricio, related to the crowdfunding and and safe harbor we're actually working on a concept that
would include essentially several different phases and and related to agriculture and agro tourism. So So with that, is
that is it typically recommended to to set it up under one syndication and and have those different phases outlined,
as you're bringing investors in? Or would you think that separating this out what would be a better course of action if

it's over a longer duration of time,

Mauricio 11:26

it's interesting, | had a similar discussion yesterday with a client and | always bring up what, what Russ and rod and |
used to do back in the day, so one of the ways you, there's several ways you can do that, in terms of raising the
money with the longer timelines, what what we used to do, and a lot of people do do as well is they break up the
timeline into multiple, like you said, phases, right. And so you may do a syndication for phase one, which whatever
that timeline looks like in a development deal. You know, it’s obviously buying the land, doing the pre entitlement
doing kind of all that pre work. And then you can then sell that piece that LLC can sell the land along with all those
improvements as pre development work into syndication number two, and you can even do it at a predetermined
price it'll be you can literally model in whatever the returns you want to, quote unquote, manufacturer really for
phase one, because you'll you'll just, you'll just at the beginning, know exactly what phase two will be buying that
land at. And then phase two is whatever your phase two is, and again, in the development that may be, you know,
vertical construction, and getting that thing done. And then if you wanted to go a third one, you could then just sell
that then to the third group of investors who then you know, maybe you're doing the the wholesaling or the takeout
product. And that way you're doing three separate syndications, you can give the investors the option to keep rolling
forward, it's just gives them an out because especially on a development deal, maybe what you're doing as well, the
timeline might be long. And so somebody may not want to stick around for the entire timeline. And so breaking them
up into these separate offerings, it gives the investors an opportunity to get out if they want to, or they could roll over
to the next phase, | would, | would probably encourage you to give some kind of an incentive for them to roll over
because that means you'd have less money to raise in the next phase. But that's just one of many ways you can do it.
| mean, you could certainly just do one syndication. But then other issues come up, you know, what is it going to be
worth, you know, you know, if you bring in new investors, you know, a year from now into the same offering, you've
got to kind of anticipate today what's going to be happening or 234 years out, which may be difficult. And then it
also creates some issues if you're bringing in non accredited investors. Let's talk about this real quick because this
comes up often now, when you're doing one offering one syndication that takes a while. Let's say it takes more than
I'm going to say six months. But let’s say you do one syndication, that's, that's going to go in your case, two phases,
right? And you're going to do multiple phases. But let's just say we're going to do one, one deal, one syndication, one
most people forget is that the exemption that most of us rely on, which is 506, B or C, but 506 B, one of the
requirements of that exemption is to provide audited financials to non accredited investors. Now, most of the time,
that's not an issue or it never comes up because we're creating brand new companies that have no operating history.
And so there are no financials, let alone audited financials, right? They're all zeros. But if you do a syndication the
last one, two or three years, | mean, think about it. Now you fast forward a year from now when you're taking money
in a year from now. Well, now the syndication has been in operation for a year, right? So it has a year's worth of
financials and a year’s worth of p&l and a balance sheet. And so to the extent you are raising money from non
accredited a year from now, or two years from now, in phase two, or even if it's a continual raise, you're raising money
in the future from non accredited investors, you will have that obligation to provide them with with audited
financials, which, as you probably know, are are expensive, and arguably, it’s like full flushing cash down the drain,
right? Like it’s it really doesn't add that much value to it. So that's just another consideration that you got to think
about. So there’s many ways you can do it. But they all have a little bit of pros and cons. And it just depends on what
you're trying to accomplish, which is, which is where we make that decision.

Ditee 146-1A
separate in your mind to separate syndications that are closely tied to each other, meaning it’s the same, maybe it's
the same, even the same property, but one is dead, and one is equity, or maybe it’s a fund. And so you're kind of kind
of doing one fund that might be, for example, a 506. c fund. And then you might have another phone that says 506,
B, all these things, when you have more than one offering going at the same time or close to each other, the SEC
typically will integrate those meaning they'll combine those into one for purposes of figuring out what the rules are.
So if you do one, five, or six, B and 150 succeeds, and what can you do that the question is, well, they're probably
going to integrate that. And therefore you can do one B, one C, because you're going to be violating probably the
advertising rules on the 506 B. And similarly, with funds, people want to create different funds. And the main reason
is just so people can't get around the rules, right? We all know, for example, that you're limited to 35 non accredited
investors, you can't go up to 35, shut down the fund and start a new fund and suddenly have a new, you know, new
bunch of 35. But there's a safe harbor on integration and it's six months. So typically, you close a particular
syndication or in our case, where it really applies a lot is on a fund and you close that deal. And then you wait six
months and you start another another deal, then that's going to be not, it’s not going to be integrated, because
you've got that safe harbor of six months, they're actually thinking about shortening that to one month, which is
which is pretty interesting. One month is not a big deal at all, it’s not that hard to just close it up and wait 30 days
and then start a brand new one so | can see a scenario. You know, Billy's a great example you're kind of doing very
similar product side and so it’s very easy for those you know, two to those to get combined. But | can very easily see
doing a funder, any syndication for that matter for particular product type, using let's say a 506 B, taking non
accredited going into your own world and then say Well, I've kind of run out of my own people and | really want to
advertise now which obviously ordinarily you wouldn't be able to well now you could in theory shut down close that
offering wait 30 days and start a new font and do pretty much the exact same thing you were doing before but now
do it as a 506 C for example. So that kind of caught my eye | thought | thought that that’s that's a kind of a huge six
months as a while people don't usually want to wait that long, but 30 days sounded pretty interesting. So that kind
of caught my eye. It's probably the most important part of that those proposed rules. And then there was some other
there were some other proposed rules for some of the other exemptions that most of us don't use that often. For
example, you know, reggae plus they were thinking about bumping up the limit to that although again, | do some
reggae plus is but they usually you know, it's a $15 million limit right now. So most people aren't raising more than 50
million and they were going to expand a little bit on the crowd. Funding one, the crowd the actual regulated
crowdfunding, not the five most succeed, but the one that actually we'd use a portal, they're going to they're looking
to raise those limits from a million dollars to | think it was $5 million. because nobody's nobody's really using that
exemption, it was part of that crowdfunding piece it was the it was the last piece that came on the job zag. And it
just says become pretty. The regulations are pretty tight, there’s not much you can do the limits a million bucks. |
mean, it's adjusted to inflation. Now it's a million dollars, just over a million dollars. But | thought it was interesting
that they're trying to loosen up those rules and get more people thinking about using that exemption. And if it's 5
million, then maybe it is at some point, you know, the economies of scale scale start, start making more sense, and
maybe more people, you know, maybe it becomes an option for us in the mentoring club to think about using the
regulated crowdfunding portals that you can essentially go to these third party, you know, they're called, they're
called funding portals, or their broker dealers, and you can put your deals up there, and maybe do a little bit more
advertising than you can now right now you can do that much advertising, you can point to the link the website,
where your where your deals up there, but it’s really, it’s really the marketing of the actual funding portal. So | know, |
feel like | ramble there a little bit. But that those are kind of there's some updates coming up. And my plan has been,
and that's kind of on my one of my top three goals of my content creation is just to kind of do a little bit of a
summary report or white paper on those proposed rules. Because | think some of them may be applicable to what

we're doing.

Russ 06:34

Yeah, well, | mean, let's, let's do this, let's just when something comes up, let membership now and schedule a call.
And, you know, we'll we'll do one and we'll just have a conversation like this, and you tell me about it, and we'll record
it. And then we can turn it into a special report and have somebody write that if you want to, but and then we can
Okay, just document it. You know, I've got clients who this may be a little bit overboard, but you know, some people
with their permission, literally record the conversation. So you can have a read on then you can put it on your CRM
and see at least that you have the recording, or you can turn the recording into notes, or you can just take notes, but
just have something that when because you're not gonna remember where you met this person five years ago. So
having a good set of record keeping and a process where you can prove that you establish the relationship, but | like
once you get to that point, then you can email blast, everybody in that category, that you have a substance that you
feel you have a pretty good relationship, and it's a substantive relationship. And at that point, it's fair game at that
point. Once you have that relationship, you can send them your business plan, you can send them an invite to a

webinar, you can send them a one sheet you can do at that point, you can move forward.

Russ 33:54

Yeah. So | think Steve, there's a couple parts. I'll let you ask your follow up question in just a minute. But | want to
highlight a couple things. You know, | know you guys because | came out to it do an educational event, or at least
did. You did that one big educational event which is great. And so Brad some rock is great at this. This is Brad
operates primarily under exemption B as in Brad. And what he does is he has a whole educational program, he
brings people in that he meets, he comes in, he teaches on for several hours and invites him to become part of his
you know, his weekend for wealth that they pay a little bit for. And then they spend a couple of days there and he
teaches them and that content is pretty well documented and have lots of people see it teaches them about due
diligence and all those kinds of things. And part of what he's trying to do is not just show that he has a relationship
with them, but that they're sophisticated. And they're sophisticated enough to know what they're being offered
because he’s training them in that sophistication. So that that’s what he does. And of course he has regular events
where he gets together with his bus tours and whatnot where he spends time with people So Robert, and I've always
used education as a way to build relationships, we continue to do that it’s harder to do with live events and some
resale | wanted to ask you this, and again, young brain, Steve, so hold on to your thought, and I'm sure it'll still be
there. In the era of zoom, like we're doing right now, and people not really being able to go out to a coffee shop and
have a conversation. There are some, you know, upsides and some downsides. | don't really like the idea of recording
a phone call. But | love the idea of recording zoom call. And so this moves from the legal side more to the sales side.
But in the sales process, we talked about set the table, touch the heart, engage the mind and setting the table is
earning the right to touch the heart, you didn't can't just sit somebody down and say, hey, let's have a zoom call, let
me ask a bunch of personal questions and record it, right, you're gonna have to, you're going to have to earn the
right to do that by making an initial sale, about why they want to put their time in to even have the phone call. And
then that why it's important for you to ask them these questions. And it's all about | think the positioning is there are
great investment opportunities available for people who qualify, but to protect. And again, this is me, because | hate
Wall Street. But to protect their monopoly, a lot of the laws that exist are designed to prevent people like me who
have access to these deals, from showing them to people like you. And so there are ways for you to become eligible
to see these deals, and one of them is, we have to go through this process of an interview, where | get to know you,
and I'm learning about what you are, you get a chance to learn about me. And for both of our sakes, it would be
really smart for us to record it. That way, you have a record of what | said, and | have a record of what you said. And
then somewhere down the road, if we ever need to make the argument that we are that you're eligible to take
advantage of these opportunities, we have that documentation, of course, the other thing that's great, is I'm going to
learn about you so | can bring you exactly the kind of deals that are going to fit exactly what it is you're trying to
accomplish. And we probably ought to get together and maybe talk with each other, you know, at least once a year,
maybe more often, you know, outside of any other transactions just to update that. So I'm kind of always up to
speed. Does that make sense? | mean, it's it's it’s it's that’s, that has nothing to League, | usually am very hesitant to
anything that's in the sales process of making a recording. But if you really know what you're doing, when you make
the recording, you are literally covering yourself because you are going to include in your comments, all of the
appropriate disclaimers that, you know, future performances, you know, past performance is no indication of future

results, you know, kind of the blue sky stuff that all investing has risk that you know, they're responsible for their own
due diligence that you don't give tax, legal or investment advice, but you're happy to talk with any of their financial
advisors anytime and answer any questions. Because that way, one of the things that people use when they turn on
you is they claim ignorance, they claim they didn't know you didn't explain you didn't say you misrepresented. And if
you have set the table have a very authentic, transparent relationship and you've covered all those legal bases in
that initial recording. And that becomes part of your permanent record. | think now you've got something that’s
going to be very useful for you going forward. So Mauricio, before we toss it back to Steve, is there anything you want
to say about that? either in terms of correction or embellishment? No, you got it right. Perfect. Okay, Steve, and if you
could last through all of that and remember your question go?

@) Steve Olson 38:55

Yeah, | basic basically to summarize then, if you send it out and you're going through 506 C, you're going to have you
know, 10,000 people on your list and you really limit yourself to the 1000 that are accredited, even though they all
hear about it, but you can only do the accredited route and B is that substantive relationship of people you already
know Is that a fair summary Mark

© Mauricio 39:20

that's a that's a great summary that's exactly what the summary is just on that list obviously with the five will
succeed and you can obviously do other things you can go on podcast or social media and you know find new
people that way as well. But you're just talking about your email list Dude, that's the that’s those are the two
differences.

& Russ 39:37

And | would do a subset to guys and gal and that is making sure that you have some designation for sophistication.
So | would rank them you know, on a scale of one to 10 or maybe one to four, whatever GPA but but rank them so
that when you you know where you're dealing with you obviously want to deal with people that are sophisticated
because sophisticated people are better able to understand risks, they're more willing to stand behind their decisions
because they understood what they did and why they did it. If you're dealing with somebody that's relatively
unsophisticated, asking really irrelevant, inappropriate, or ignorant questions, it doesn't mean you don't want to
educate them, but you might hesitate to do business with them until they get to a higher level of sophistication.
Which brings me full circle back to the idea of how you can take people who you just met, and begin to develop a
substantive relationship up until the time that you feel that you've established it and can actually present something
to them. So that's education, if you are educating them on the nuances of what you're doing, and why you're doing
it, market, niche, economic circumstances, how to do deal analysis, and others, how you analyze deals, what you look
for all those things, absent the concerns of conditioning, the audience, and all that Marie's to remind us of that, but
generally speaking, you actually are developing a substantive relationship with them, while you're developing their
sophistication, while you're documenting all the things that they should know or should have known or been aware of
when they entered into the deal, so it mitigates their opportunity to claim misrepresentation, or somehow that you
preyed upon their naivete, because you didn't | mean, if you told them, hey, these are the things to look for in a deal,
and you hand them a deal, and they didn't see that something in your deal had something and they go, Hey, |, you
know, this was in there. They didn't tell me Well, you know, and | didn’t know to ask, well, they didn't know to ask. So
anyway, | think that that could be useful. But why don't you just, you know, again, | think this conditioning is an
important thing, especially in the day and age where everybody and their uncle has a podcast and a newsletter, you
know, and most of them are doing it for the specific purpose of moving people into a sales funnel that’s going to
land with them transferring money into a deal, how do you avoid conditioning and yet still do a good job of

educating?
CC - July 1, 2020 - Q&A Live Call on Legal and
Compliance wi...

@ Tue, 9/28 11:12AM @ 55:47

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, syndication, deal, investors, mauricio, exemption, questions, audited financials, joint venture, financials, audited,

promissory note, point, non accredited investors, legal, relationship, money, piece, documents, crowdfunding

SPEAKERS

Russ, Mauricio, Janna Hubbs, Steve Olson

Russ 00:16

Hey syndication veteran cop, it's Russ and we are here with a guest. q&a | think we're gonna probably put this under
the Ask the mentors category, but it’s legal it's legal q&a and so joining us is our syndication attorney, expert. And a

good friend Mauricio, hey Maria, how you doing?

Mauricio 00:35

Good Russ How you guys doing?

Russ 00:37

Good, staying busy, we're all studying in place now, | guess is what we'd call it and syndicating in place and
summiting in place and sheltering in place and sipping in place. So whatever activities we're doing, they have to start
with an S or they don't qualify. Anyway. Um, so the goal here and we can go for as long as we need but longer than
we need in we have up to an hour is to pick Mario's brain with any legal questions that you have. But while you're
mulling those over, because we didn’t have any pre submitted, | know Steve, you, you've got one. Mauricio, I’m going
to kind of put the monkey on your back, if | can, and just ask you, based on your practice, based on your interacting
with syndicators, and what you're seeing, is there anything going on in the world of syndication legalities that you've

seen, that are noteworthy something that people should be aware of?

Mauricio 01:34

Yes, | should put them in the spot. Yeah, there actually is. And I've been meaning to kind of do a little bit more in
depth report on it. But earlier this year, before the COVID thing hit, there were some proposed rules from the SEC,
which | thought were interesting. Most of them didn't really apply to what we do. But a couple of the ones that were
interesting to me were was the the integration rules I'll just briefly talk about cuz i think i think it's important to you,
even though we don't usually talk about integration that much, but integration is this concept, that if you have to
Yeah. So membership, if you're watching this, add that to the list and ratio, if you can remember to shoot
membership, a note and we can do that. | think we need to close up I'll just say this, Randy. And | don't know why I'm
got brain fade today. It’s the second time that | feel like I'm got something to say and I'm beginning to lose it. So |
got an interview coming up later, hopefully, I'll become smarter in just a few minutes. But um, | was gonna say, in the
secrets of successful syndication, my opening session, | talked about the importance of having a Black's Law
Dictionary in your library. And so it’s ironically, just the other day | got mine out. And | looked up the term joint
venture, because it gets thrown around a lot like partner does, oh, this is my partner, this my partner on this project.
What does that mean? Well, we're working together. So | looked up what the legal definition of a joint venture was,
and it isn't an entity. It's just two people who it's, you know, what the term | use is Alliance. You know, when we've
when Robert Helms and | first started working together was effectively a marketing joint venture, it was him and his
company and his resources and me and my company, and my resources. And we allied we aligned, we work together,
we each did portions of work. And of course, we weren't offering securities at the time, but there was no legal entity
involved. It was just kind of this cooperative thing. And you know, when you muddy the water a little bit now there's
capital involved, and | guess truly, there was right, because, you know, Bob, and Robert would pay for things, | would
pay for things, we throw everything in the kitty. It’s kind of like living together before you're married, or even, you
know, sharing, sharing things. But when you're dating, and you're not even living together, we went through the
normal progression that couples go through. And, and so anyway, the point is, is that when you're out there using
words, even words that you see, because we learn our language, by the environments that we're in. And if you're
watching what other people are doing on Facebook, or LinkedIn, or whatever, and you think, well, because they're
saying it, or they're doing it somehow it's okay, and you can do it too. | know, Randy, you're smart enough to know
that's not true. And you're sophisticated enough to recognize when people who are doing things you're like, Huh, that
seems a little bit on the line, which is why we do these sessions. This is why we have the platform, which is why we do
what we do, because you don't want to learn your investing language and behaviors and, and approaches. That way,
because there are more people making more mistakes right now than ever, because the ability to communicate with
masses and mass market has never been easier, or cheaper. And unlike you guys, most people are not willing to
invest in their education and mentoring, or in consulting an attorney, they just wing it and think it’s easier to ask
forgiveness than it is permission in certain things in life. | would agree with them. in syndication, | disagree. It's a lot
easier to figure out what the actual parameters are and follow them. But one of the easiest ways to do it is when
you're seeing somebody throw a term around in a legal context is to grab your Black's Law Dictionary and look it up
and make sure that you You understand what the legal definition is, even though it may not fit the context, you heard
it. And that's been something that has served me well over the years. And ironically, | just did it on this particular
term. So that's why | thought I'd bring it up to any closing comments before we wrap this thing up.

Mauricio 55:14
No, looking forward to the next one. Okay, good job, everybody.

Russ 55:18

Thanks. It’s better when you can bring your questions but | know sometimes you don’t know what you don't know. In
which case then instead of bringing your questions, bring your problems and we'll turn them into questions. But good
call, really appreciate it and look forward to doing it again. You guys I'll take care
19:36
forgot it. |

JO

© Russ 19:37

was busy looking at Jana. So it'll come back to me. Let's just go to Jana rather than me ramble around looking for it.
So I'm going to ask you to unmute I've muted you trying to unmute you unmute yourself. There you go. Okay, Jana,
you're up. Except your microphones not on you got to join audio.

© Mauricio 19:57

| can hear | can hear Oh, |

© Russ 19:59

couldn't hear

@) Janna Hubbs 20:00

Have you on the audited financials? What specifically? Does that look like? Do you have examples of that? The
reason I'm asking is because we have different investors that want to see different reports, we try really hard to
accommodate them. In one situation, we've got a member that wants to see every single month of bank statements
along with the p&l and the balance sheet for the year, we send out quarterly reports. What's the right way to provide

© Mauricio 20:33

so So to be clear, we're talking about two different things. So when | talked about audited financials, I'm talking
about audited financials provided to a prospective investor at the time you're selling your syndication, so when they
signed the ppm, and you're giving them all the information about your deal, if they're non accredited, and you've had
a history, and there are audited financials or your couldn't be, then you're obligated to provide them as part of your
ppm, audited financials. Now, once they become members of the LLC, now you're talking about ongoing reporting
and ongoing quarterly things, that typically is the balance sheet and the profit and loss statement. But to be clear,
it's basically whatever's in your operating agreement. So in the operating agreement, there'll be a section on on
records and, and reporting. And that's where you would be putting in what type of reports or what kind of financials
you're going to be providing the members and my operating agreements, which we've done a few. So that'll be if it's
one of ours, it's it specifically says balance sheet and p&l. And they would just be do, you know, once a year, so they
do Usually, | think 30, or nine, | forget now, because 30 or 90 days following, you know, the end of the year, so they're
usually doing about March or April for the prior year. But they certainly, unless you put it in there, they would not be
required to be audited, unless you put it in there, because you felt that your particular investment will require that but
it's certainly not required under the law.

© Russ 21:56
Mauricio 42:07

Yeah, | was gonna mention that. | mean, while we were talking about it initially was a one on one, but you can
definitely scale that. And that's what most people are doing. They're doing webinars series, they've got their own
podcasts they're doing, you know, whatever they're doing to educate. And that's the key, | mean, one of the one of
the things you can do, especially if you don't have a current deal, again, I'm a big believer that you know, and you
teach this to Russ is, you know, the time, the time to get new people on your list. And to get those relationships is
when you don't have a deal when you're in between deals. And the condition, the market becomes easier when you
don't have a deal. If you have an active deal going. You really just want you don't want to get too cute with it. | mean,
yeah, you can, there are ways to do it. But but i think you know, you're pushing your luck, | think once once you
started offering focus on raising money, once you're done with the offering, then start working everything else. But
you can definitely provide educational information on social media or any, you know, podcast, or webinars or
whatever, as long as it’s purely educational, then you're fine.

Russ 43:08

There's Okay, so let me let me jump in and try to make a distinction. And you see if | get it right, conditioning, the
market would be bragging about your high returns, talking about how smart you and your team are, how much great
opportunity is in there, how it’s a no brainer, how this is the best investment of the decade, even though you're not
offering anything in particular, you are painting a pie in the sky, you know, thing to try to entice interest, that's a lot
different than saying, This is how we recognize a good deal. We go in and we do this level of analysis. And when we
get numbers and when they fall into this range. Generally speaking, we feel like that that's a good opportunity when
environment where capital is 2%, or 3%. And we can find a yield of 6% or 8%. That's enough of a spread, we feel like
everybody that needs to do the work can get fed, and an investor can still get a decent rate of return. Right? That's
educational, that isn't promising them that they're going to get six or 8%, or whatever the number is, that isn’t telling
them that you're the smartest guy on the planet. It’s showing them but you're not saying it. When you invite your CPA
or your property manager or your construction guy to come in and add professional color to the educational
content. You're demonstrating their expertise, but you're not saying hey, this is the greatest guy in the world. And if
you invest with him, you'll never lose money. Again, no deal on the table. But all of those types of bragging
statements that are absent educational content or factual documentation could be considered not just you know,
conditioning but puffery and you don't want to go there you want you want to stay very sober. You want to you want
to talk about you know, ranges you want to, you want to bring in expertise. And it's really about education. So that's
in my mind how | parse it. Am | in spitting distance of where we want to be Mauricio you're right

Mauricio 45:09

on | mean anything that drums up interest about you know a potential deal that's in the future or certainly one that's
denied the one it’s the one the car but | would give you that you threw in there that | would say is okay is talking
about the team factual information about your business and yourself your resume kind of thing and it's kind of you
know, not super exciting but you're not gonna just sit there and be like hey look, I've been doing this for 30 years but
but that's allowed you can definitely keep talking about your business and what you guys do and that's kind of what
you mentioned the second time which was you know, this is our investment philosophy hey we love multifamily
because of and here are the reasons we love it oh we love the market the Houston market because of XYZ that's fine
and but but bragging about the if you talk about the team in terms of like this is the this is the greatest acquisition
guy ever, you know ever made and you know, he's going to make sure we get a really good deal and we're going to
vvell, UlIU LIS ULI LIMNIY, OLEVE, US YUU THUKE UVUTAVIC LIIGL HIVETILUTY LU ITIVE SLUTS LITUL CILITCT UUITL WUTIL LU TIUVe UT

can't get a conventional loan in their own name, but they want a piece of the pie, correct? Yes,

(6) Steve Olson 26:57

exactly. You know, in a day and age where people are starving for inventory and finding deals, they're right under my
nose, | got to be stupid to not do that a little bit more. So when it comes to contacting our database, could you just
give a general overview of what the do's and don'ts are? Because there's a bunch of capital in that database that
would invest with me, but | don't want to across the line here? Yeah.

© Russ 27:24

That's a great question.

© Mauricio 27:25

Great question. And it's not a it’s not a rookie question. It's a great question. So we always start with, you know, what
exemption do we go by, because depending on what exemption we're going to pick will dictate what we can and
cannot do with that list. So. So for example, if you're going to do a 506 C as in Charlie, then you would basically have
carte blanche to blast that entire list, whether you knew everybody on that list, or you didn't, you would be limited,
obviously, to only being able to accept accredited investors from that list. But you could access all of them. | again,
had a call yesterday with somebody that had access to it was a list of 10,000 people, they didn't know all the people
that were the five or six, you could blast that list.

© Russ 28:04

Okay, so stop right there, you have to hold your thought because you have a younger brain than mine. So action
item number one is, for those of you that have less, you may want to segment your list into people that you know,
and have a personal relationship with. And | think what would be considered a substantial, documentable, pre
existing relationship, and you might want to tag those be just just a just a designator, and then the rest of the people
would be sees, and that way you can you can segment your Listen, you can have different conversations with

different subgroups. Okay, Maria, Sierra young brain fire up and pick it back up?

ro ) Mauricio 28:42

No, that's great. That's it, thanks for bringing that up. But that is a number one, it’s a pro tip. And it's the one that you
absolutely should be segregating. Because when you decide, hey, this is going to be a five or six B, you want to make
sure you're excluding everybody that you just met, you know, at an event or you know, somehow you got their thing
from Facebook, but you don't know them. So if you're doing a 506, b, then the rule is you really should have a pre
existing substantive relationship with the person in that database. Now, what does that mean? That means that
you've gone through the steps, let’s say, which | finally got around to actually put those on the, on the platform. So

we finally got around to outlining the actual steps because usually | would just point them to the no action letter,
which kind of has it you got to dig around. But | just have the eight steps. And it’s one of the few times where the SEC
has given us really good guidance like here the | mean, it’s like here are the steps you want to take when you don't

really know them that well and you want to establish that substantive relationship now.
invite the membership to come in. If they want to do q&a, they can, if it’s just you and me. Great, but let’s get it out.
So the integration thing that's interesting, so I'm going to toss it back since we have people in Jana, | muted you. So
if you're unable to unmute yourself, let me know and I'll unmute you. But even if you have, you know, a telephone or
your cough or breathe too heavy and your microphone, in speaker view, your face takes over and you don't know
that you're being filmed. And so to spare you from that. So right now for my taping, it's | think me that is showing I'm
not sure I'm seeing ratio, but it doesn't show me. But you guys are all seeing me, right? Yeah. Okay, so I'll switch it
back and forth. Anyway. So you heard Mauricio talk about integration, the concept of integration, which | think is
fascinating, and it’s still six months, but there's talk or possibility, it'll shift to one month, and you'll let us know if and
when that happens, right? That's right. And then the second thing is there is talk, but it hasn't happened yet, about
the idea that the minimum levels, or the maximum levels for crowdfunding portal funding could quintuple right go
from a million to 5 million, which is substantial. And it may be at some point down the road, the syndication mentor
club could even create its own platform, and we could use our collective marketing to drive | mean that there's many
things we can do when we get big enough. Right now, you know, we're just we're just learning how to organize the
content in the membership. But that's also pretty interesting, because and | think that that’s what happens, it moves
very slow. Mauricio brought us the JOBS Act in 2012, and said, Hey, guys, this is gonna be great. It wasn't till the end
of September 2013, till we finally got the regulations. And then at the end of from that period of time, | mean, you still
had people trying to figure out the crowdfunding and the legal. And lawyers don't like to issue advices, very few that
will do it just based on the law. Most of them are interested in the precedents. And when there's no precedents, it’s
hard to really get strong legal opinions you can sink your teeth into, because lawyers are hesitant to write them. They
don't know what the courts gonna decide, and they don't have a precedent to go into court and argue with the court
about, right. Am | right on that ratio?

Mauricio 09:01

Yeah, legal opinions are very interesting, because they don't just write legal opinions willy nilly. They put a lot of
research and making sure that every word on that piece of paper is and that’s one of the reasons they're so
expensive, is because you know, if they're wrong, and it’s on paper, then they're going to be liable for that. So they
want to make sure that they're very, very, very comfortable in offering that opinion. And if there's any, if there’s any
doubt, or any, you know, there's not not clarity in that in that in that space, then they just won't do it. Oh, yeah. Well,
and

Russ 09:30

clarity comes from clarity comes from court cases. That's right, because now you can go on argue with court z that,
hey, court B way back a long time ago said this, and if you're going to be consistent in your application of the law,
you need to align with court B. And now as I'm saying they don't contradict or overrule each other, but a lot of time
precedent means a lot in the United States law practice. And so that that's important to understand and you know,
kind of relating back to real estate just for everybody's benefit is when LLC is really Started emerging back in the late
90s. A lot of lawyers were were hesitant to recommend them. Even though they offered a lot of benefits. CPAs were a
little quicker. But still same thing. They didn't know how Tax Court was going to respond. It took a while. And then
later on in the early 2000s, when series LLCs came on, they were also slow to gain traction because nobody knew
they were cited as, hey, these are all individual policies and liability protection. They're separate. But you're not asset
protection. They're separate. But in an actual court case, | don't know. And | actually | don’t even know what the
update on series isn't. We don't need to go there. But as far as what research shared about integration, which | think
is super interesting, or crowdfunding, does anybody have any questions they'd like to ask me do anything to clarify
any of that? Going once

Am Aan
