found out. Now if | can bring in a quote from a guy like Alan Greenspan, that's third party and say, Well, you know,
Stephanie, let me ask you this question. Greenspan said this. here’s the here's the quote. What's your opinion on
that? let her play her card first. So | kind of deviate a little bit but to me everything sales and a big part of being
conversant in the economics and investing in the public. Underneath it is understanding how to how to play those
cards how to navigate those cards inside of your sales technique for the ultimate purpose of raising money because
there's two things you're responsible for why you should be here. Number one, how do | raise more money? Number
two, how do | make wise investment decisions. So those are the two things, all the rest of this stuff might be totally
interesting to you, you could be like me history buff, you know, finance buff economics buff, you just think is so
interesting. And it is | have to constantly discipline myself to make sure that whatever I'm doing whatever rabbit trail
I'm down, actually leads to something productive. Because otherwise, you know, | might as well just retire and sit
around and read books to sit on the porch and tell stories with the old guys. Because you know, I'm done playing, but
I'm not done playing. And so | need to make sure you always keep it relevant. So and yes, | started if you go back,
Jared, and only if you've read the real asset investing report that’s in the library. But | wrote that in 2013. When it first
dawned on me that change China was going after the dollar in China was a threat. | built upon that in my
presentation of the dollar under attack and the future of money and wealth series, which was the first presentation
at future money and wealth. And that's also in the library, you might want to take a look at that in the platform. And
then | continue to talk about that and track that. And | think that the evolution of what China has been up to, and
I've read several books, the 100 year marathon, the stealth war, about China and Chinese strategy. | think it's starting
to come into the mainstream the idea that China has been operating on a long term plan to supplant the US is the
dominant economic power, the dominant superpower, and ultimately, the dynamic financial power, dynamic
financial system power. And Bitcoin is a threat going back to Chris and blockchain. digital currencies are being
looked at right now by all central banks. China's already launched their version of what they call the cbdc Central
Bank, digital currency. So, you know, Jim Rickards, in his great series talked about the SDR you combine the SDR,
which would be a global fiat currency for international trade married then to the blockchain. That could be so there's
a lot of different places these things can all go, | can’t tell you from my vantage point, if | had to make a bet, where
they're going to go, | don't know, there are hedging strategies that you can take. And obviously we're pushing some
of those out there in the mainstream. And being part of a mastermind like this, and just continuing to track the
evolution of it listening to thought leaders like guys that study it, like George gammon, who I'm now a big fan of,
ironically, George started out listening to our show. That's what he said. So maybe he was just flattering us, but we're
old enough to for that to be true. Anyway, so Okay, so good stuff. Let's see. So let's go to Sep.

A 37:56

Okay, so I've fine tuned my thesis quite a bit since the calls that we've done on the business plan, Russ, so we're
gonna start off with a solid with my thesis and why I'd like to use clues in the news to convey the thesis to the to the
investors and why this benefits them. So it's kind of long, but it's today, there’s a shortage of 7 million affordable
housing units available to extremely low income tenants. Portable housing is more essential to human survival than
mansions in Beverly Hills, Freddie Mac found that millennials that are in their household formation years prefer SFR
over traditional multifamily. The affordable housing asset class offers investors all the benefits of real estate
investing, plus the fact that is essential to human survival. high demand and low supply means lucrative investment
opportunities for passive investors that want to protect and grow their capital, while positively improving the

communities they invest in.

@ Russ 38:51

Okay, so SAP that is a that is basically an outline for a report what that was, is fantastic. It's a series of thesis
statements. Okay, so the way it works is a thesis statement is whatever your conclusion is, and every one of those
was a statement that was drawing a conclusion. It's a premise. What was lacking for each one of them was a
supporting argument. So if | were to take that outline, and make each one a chapter or a paragraph, and then what |
want to make sure that everybody has the chance to ask questions participate process, and over time we'll build up
a great library. The good news is even though we're going to be pivoting off of maybe what's happening in the news
or in the current environment. The reality is, is most of its going to be time less content that will be useful to people
that are watching this, five years from now, 10 years from now, whatever, maybe even after I'm dead and buried, so
So let's do that number one. Number two is, uh, I'd like to just share a couple of thoughts on where | feel that we as
syndicators and real estate syndicators, in particular, have some really unique selling propositions that we all should
be aware of. We're in an environment right now, where the Federal Reserve has come out and pledge low yields, on
income investments for as far as the eye can see. And so we have both their actions and their words, and the and the
outcome supporting that you're probably aware as we're sitting here in December of 2020, that the the 30 year
mortgage interest rates have hit all time lows more than a dozen times this year, | think 14 times this year, there is so
much downward pressure on interest rates, and obviously, people care about interest rates, you should care about
interest rates and understand you know, kind of where they come from, and the Fed doesn't set them the Fed sets a
target and then operates in the open market with bond buying to bid up the price or add supply to the market,
effectively causing the bid to go down in order to manipulate the yield, which is just dividing the actual sales price by
the coupon or dividing the coupon by the sales price, a small number and a big number. At any rate, once you've got
that kind of figured out, then you understand that that the value of an investment is really derived by the income it
produces. And so the lower the rate goes down, the higher the value, that's why cap rates on apartments, as they go
down, prices on apartments go up equity happens when you buy a anything and the yield in the market goes down
relative to the yield it's producing. Does that make sense? So you have to kind of get your mind around that the
inverse relationship between bonds and notes, or yields, inverse relationship between bonds and yields. Okay, got
that. Now, if you understand how much debt there is in the world, and how devastating it would be if interest rates
rose, you realize how much pressure there is on the central banks to keep interest rates down everywhere all the time.
Which means there's a lot of upward pressure, | think, to Ben's earlier comment on prices, because prices have to go
up. And even though the Fed isn't purchasing real estate directly, people who are chasing yields are going to bid up
trying to preserve yield so they get driven out of bonds into apartments or mortgage backed securities. there here's
the point of all that real estate has the ability to produce safer or better, or | should say higher risk adjusted yields
than almost anything else because we get to introduce leverage, we have collateral, we have backstopping by the
banks who have proved that they're willing to come in underneath the real estate market with you know, purchasing
mortgage backed securities in the residential space, particularly you know, backstopping Fannie and Freddie, you
could go on and on about how much of the air that gets printed at these central banks gets funneled into real
estate. And there's a reason because if that real estate prices drop, the collateral becomes bad. The banking system
implodes, and it’s not that the Fed is trying, in my opinion, trying to necessarily protect Main Street, they're trying to
protect the banks, but in order to do it, if you're in debt, and you own real estate, you're going to get propped up, and
if they do temporarily lose control, then they pull out all the stops, as they did before and as I'm quite certain they
will do again, if you believe that and can make that argument. Then it says when everything falls apart, you should
back up the shopping cart and buy all you can because the inevitable reflation is going to occur, it’s a huge
opportunity. In the meantime, you have to be super attentive to cash flows. And so you can attract capital that
seeking yields in dividends and companies that are struggling to make a profit relying upon capital gains, you can
you can, you can attract capital that is investing in bonds and not able to get a yield. You can invest in you can
attract capital that is going into you know, annuities and insurance policies trying to get a yield and then what you
have to do is you have to demonstrate in a your, in your offering, you know what the yield is where the yield is
derived from why the yield is more stable than other sources. And why the remedies if something happens to that
yield were to go away. Why what what you have is better, I'll give you a simple example, if someone has a chance
between buying a bond, which is an lOU from, say, a corporation, maybe a junk bond paying, you know, two and a
half 3%, because that's three times the yield of a treasury. And they buy it, if that junk bond issuer goes broke, they
get nothing. Now, if they make a first position, deed of trust a mortgage, if you will, against a residential piece of
property, they may get six or 8%, which is twice the yield or maybe even close to three times the yield of the junk
bond. And if the borrower defaults, you get the property. And then once you have the property, you can become a
landlord and rent the property out to replace the cash flow. Or you could sell the property and pay off the debt and
you've got a lot of protective equity, because theoretically, the property would have to decline in value by 2030 40%,

before you didn't have enough to return your capital. Or the third thing is, is you could sell it on a carry back, which is
what | would do is that | would then get another downpayment from a new buyer get even more cash, further
reducing my risk, and then get a and get a borrower who is going to pay me an above average yield. And of course,
when you when you take the cash that | got back, if | had, if | had $100,000, original note that was paying me 6%,
then and | were able to get say, a down payment on say $150,000 property, | were able to get a down payment of
50,000. And carry back the $100,000. Note, my actual cash in the note is only 50,000. But I'm still getting the same
6% on 100, which means I'm really getting 12% on my capital. And the same thing, if the deal goes bad. | can take
back the house, | can put in a tenant, or | can sell on a carry back. Right? That is so much better than bonds. In real
estate investors just have to learn how to tell that story. So people understand. Because then they say yeah, but it’s
hard for me to go buy that make that mortgage, | don't know how to do that. That's okay, Mister investor, you don't
have to know how to do that. | know how to do that. And | take a little bit, but there's a lot of margin for providing
that service. And now you get all the benefits without the hassle. How does that sound? Now you have a syndication.
In this case, it's a syndication of notes, could be a syndication of cash flows from rental properties, or whatever. But
this is where you take the kind of the economics, the financial compared to what else is out there and create a risk
adjusted reward understanding so people really can see the value of what you're bringing to the table, instead of just
trying to bid up the price or height people or tell story, you know, pretty pictures, you may be excited about the
property. But a lot of investors, they don’t care about the property, | don't care about the property, you could not
even show me a picture of it, other than to prove that it's really there. | just want to understand the numbers. Now,
not everybody's like me, | get that. But you need to be prepared to talk, the higher up the food chain you go, the
more you talk to people who are dealing with money, the higher the probability is you're going to deal with people
that really need to understand your math, your logic, your investment thesis, and then you know, third party things
that you can't make up or manipulate to prove that you've done your homework and in fact that what you're saying
is supported. So thesis statement, going back to what we talked about with SAP, with with, you know, three
arguments that can be quick, in this article, this expert said, and here's an anecdotal story, or three articles or three
different experts or whatever. But the point is, is that you make sure you establish each premise as you move through.
That's both for you developing your investment thesis in both both for you presenting or using your thesis to
persuade somebody to agree with your thesis. Right master that if you haven't taken persuasive writing, you might
want to like take a quick online course or something on it. You know, I'm Rusty, | learned this in the ninth grade, but
I've used it my whole life. | think I'm pretty good at it. But But you know, don't feel like I'm the end all be all when it
comes to teaching that stuff. But if | can take you up a notch and then you go bring it home better. That's great. So
that's that's my rant for today. Does anybody have a burning question? | gave a chance to kind of get everything out.
But everybody say, hey, today's an abject fit. Oh, hey, Vlad. I'm sorry. | don’t see your picture on there. Do you have
anything you want to chime in since you're the only person that didn't talk?

Ben 1:05:03

Thank you so much. No, not at this point during the time it is what it is. We'll talk more next time.

Russ 1:05:09

Okay, sorry about that. When you turn your camera off, | forgot you were there, | had to look at the roster. Apologies
for that. No worries, no worries, okay, well, | can't guarantee that every time everybody's gonna get something to say.
But | looked at the size of the group. And | thought that would be enough. And | thought, because this was the first.
First time we're doing it, it would be more important for me to hear a little bit from you, rather than just talk. And
rather than just drill down into specific topic. But again, if you have specific things that you want to ask or learn, or
talk about, and kind of in this category of learning, then what | want to know is what you want to know, and why you
want to know it, and send those to membership. And then what I'll do is, I'll pick them like we do ask the guys and I'll
try to hit as many of them as we can. If you're not on | won't answer your question. And then, the other thing is, is
that, you know, we may create some specialized content if it's, if it's too much, right, we may say, hey, let’s do a deep
dive, let's do a series on this particular thing. Let's bring in a subject matter expert. If it’s me just kind of winging it
I'm gonna encourage all of you learn to do that right. When you come to these things when you go to talk to a
lawyer when you get it. tends to be on a phone call with a guy like George Ross, when you have the opportunity on
the summit to get into a conversation with a Kenny McElroy or Robert Kiyosaki or Peter Schiff, you got to spit it out.
You can't be wandering around trying to figure it out, right? You have to know. So when you come to these sessions, |
want to spend most of the time being able to address what you're asking instead of trying to dig through it. But this
is, this is really good, just roleplay, if you will, for the way your investors are going to be, they're not going to ask you
clean questions. They're going to ask you stuff that's all over the place. And you have to learn how to listen to it, and
weed through it and figure out what are they really asking? So it’s going to come down to Usually, | know this is going
to shock you. What, why and how. Right? They they're going to ask a what? Or how, and then you want to discover
the why because the power behind getting them to move from their current situation and overcome their inertia is
going to be the why and not the first why because the first Why is usually a tactical why. Or maybe another water
another how but it's going to be three or four Whys deep until you get to emotion. Now that’s all part of sales
technique. But but you can see in the real world, which is what we're doing is a real world conversation with people,
right? No preparation, you come in, we have a gathering and I'm asking questions all sudden, I'm getting a lot of
words, and | got to dig through and figure out kind of what you're saying. Okay, so that was good. And make sure
you keep your questions, keep, you know, as you're listening, keep working on keeping it tight, and we're going to get
through as many as we can. But for this inaugural episode, | just want to kind of get a feel for what you guys are
came looking for, so that we can let this thing evolve into having it meet your needs in the best possible way. And
obviously we want to be pragmatic, it's not just to stimulate your intellect or give you a ways to feel smart, or, or
swayed your curiosity. It's really designed to make you more effective as a syndicator. Our motto forever has been
education for effective action. That's why this is not a college course. It's not a pre scripted curriculum, we didn't lock
ourselves and think, hey, what could we sell what sounds good? | want to know what's going on in the real world in
your minds, and you guys are out there, at whatever stage in your career you are asking, you know, facing whatever
issues you are and asking whatever questions you're you're dealing with. And so that’s what these asking mentors
episodes is all about is just building a giant library of real world content. So thank you for that. Chris Craig, let's go to

you.

® Craig Kamman_ 17:39

Okay, unmute. Great format, by the way, because | get lost. So, Mike, my main question is, we've obviously gone
through the looking glass as far as printing money goes, the question is, is where does the market implode? You
know, hello, how compressed to these cap rates get? | mean, are we going to be at negative returns? Like, you know,

it just, it just seems surreal to me. Yeah. Well, at what point do we does this become a risky investment?

0 Russ 18:10

Right. Okay. So that’s kind of a why so you started out with the what, like, what’s gonna happen? Where does this
end? The next question is, is more of a Why is this risky? You know, in other words, how does he answer that question
affect my investing? What what would maybe be a better question, | think offense and defense. I'm not tracking

anybody chime in, if you kind of know where I'm going.

A 18:45

On the offense, maybe it was like, what, what can | do to take advantage of this situation?

@ Russ 18:51
man in a million can diagnose it because they don't understand the basic concept. So you know, you talk about
George gam, and | have actually the old game mouse trap. That's always you know, analogy, | have it as a prop. And
the idea is that you have to understand that if a then B, then C, then D, and there's a chain of events that occurs. It's
like as soon as the whole COVID-19 thing hit, | said, Okay, COVID-19 lockdown, what does that lead to, that’s going
to lead to cessation of payments. That's going to To credit market stress banking market stress, what's going to be
the response to that the feds going to print money to prevent that? What's going to be response to that inflation?
And Peter Schiff says the definition of inflation is printing more money, then it will just basically expanding the
money supply. Jim Rickards says no, it's only he takes the economic view, only if, if the prices go up. And so they he,
they had this great debate on kitco. If you get a chance to go listen to it, it's like two or three episodes really good.
And Jim and Peter disagreed. And they It was a very heated disagreement and friends, but it was pretty heated. |
agreed with shift but | understood what what Rickards was saying, and you have to understand these words mean
things. And so the point is, is that is that if you listen to people do their logic, If This Then That, If This Then That
every time the if is established, that's the premise, you have to ask yourself, do | agree? Does that make sense?
Because if your investing thesis is built on a faulty premise, guess what? Guess what the end result of your investment
is going to be, it’s gonna be wrong. That's why this is important. And the thing is, you know, you don't know if it’s right
or wrong until you test it. That's why it's called a thesis or a hypothesis. And then you go out and you test it. And you
test it in a couple different ways. you test it by bringing it to the market and see if other people understand it, and
agree with it, or shoot holes in it, number one, and then you have to ask yourself when you get rebutted, hmm, do |
agree or disagree with their premise? Does it make more sense or not the mind and do the facts to the evidence does
what | see around me Makes sense. And then, and then it then the other part of it is you're going to attract people
that agree with your investment promise, Peter Schiff attracts people who believe the dollar is going to collapse.
That's his thesis, all this printing has an unhappy ending, therefore, you want to buy gold, you want to buy foreign
stocks at earn a currency other than the dollar. That's his basic premise. Now, there's people that say, Peter has been
wrong for a long, long time, because the dollar hasn't gotten strong. And | would listen to that. And | would say,
Okay, why is that, and that’s where | came up with my, my picture of the Titanic, as is all of the currencies in a ship.
And as the ship starts to sink, the weakest currencies go underwater first, and everybody's scrambling in demand for
the high ground, which is the US dollar, so the dollar actually goes up, even though it's all part of a sinking ship. So as
a way for me to reconcile what was happening, | could see happening in the world, and | would hear these
differences of opinions. And rather than just go Peter's my guy, and | agree with him, because he's Peter, or because
he was right once in 2006, about calling the financial crisis, or | disagree with him, because even though he was right,
once he has been wrong, as Mark skousen says, For the last 14 years, okay, but | just wanted to go a little bit deeper.
And that's really what this is about is like learning how to do that. And then coming up with some original thought,
you know, I've had some original thoughts. And that's exciting to me, it took me a long, long time to get there. But
now you have something to talk about in the marketplace that nobody's ever talked about. And you come up with
investors thesis, like this precious equity series that we've created that nobody else has ever said. And you get to the
point, it’s like cash, it kind of makes sense. | don't know why anybody's never thought of it. Well, sometimes you get to
be the one that sometimes you're going to be the one that finds that deal. Like, oh, gee, if this is such a good deal,
How come nobody else has found it? Maybe it’s your turn. Right? If this is such a good idea, how come | thought of it?
| mean, who might have Who am | to have a good idea? Well, you know, you start testing yourself, and you find out
that you're a lot smarter than you think you are if you're doing your homework. Okay, so that was that. So that was
that, Craig? So that was good. So we done, we done, Chris, we done, Craig, we done Ben, Jared, how about you? You
just look like a wise guy scratching that new beard, trying to get used to it?

@) Jarrid Cavanaugh 28:52

| mean, something to make me look smart. Yeah, so | guess what I'm looking for what | hope to take away from this is
kind of threefold. At the local level, or at our level, | just want to have a community of people that can attract and
find good news sources, because everything is spun on bias and through a lens, whether it's right or left, or they're
trying to protect their financial interests. So that’s number one. Number two, obviously, | like keeping an eye on
different real estate classes and where they're going, but | feel like that one's a little bit easier to cut through. | mean,
12:26

JO

First off, Russ, | want to say thank you for writing your, your newsletters, | think they’re they are very concise. And they
make a lot of sense. And since you touched on George dahmen, I've been watching him for the better part of this

year. And | love how he kind of breaks things down on his his presentations that he does on the whiteboard. If x

happens, then y could happen. And | think it's very, it's very simplistic on the on the recent podcast episode that that
he did with you guys, | had heard that somebody that you knew started using blockchain for

© Russ 13:13

you know, Michael flight. He's actually a Club member. Okay.

A 13:18

And so my question was, you know, | actually went to the free report, and I'm not sure if he’s the one that wrote the
free report

© Russ 13:27

where Michael token had real estate guys radio.com yet. Yeah.

2

JO

And so, blockchain, | had heard about it in a conversation where | think I'd watched a YouTube video the week before,
| didn’t even know what it was and like, what the heck is blockchain? And then | heard it on the podcast. And I'm like,
Well, how can how can we use it to to raise capital? And what are the uses that it can be used for can be used in
raising a general fund or doesn't have to be a specific fund? | don't know how long it takes takes to build Is it a is it

exempt from the SEC or is it like a like a true sec? filing that you have to do since you'd be taking money from like

© Russ 14:15

security so go back and listen to the episode definitely read his report. And yeah, obviously blockchain is in the news
Bitcoin is huge news, which is built on the blockchain the concept of blockchain technology. And so Okay, all right.
So that that's that's good. Now I'm going to ask you the same question why why do you want to know that?

A 14:35

Because | would want to take advantage of it to raise capital for Okay.

@) Russ 14:41

Okay. So the question is, is what is what is blockchain in relation to real estate and how can | use it to raise capital?

Yes, right. You kind of get it you get take all that stuff, and you just kind of get it down to like a sentence. Right? And
think that when you bring that context, you reinforce your deal. | think you also will prevent yourself from doing
stupid deals because you realize this deal doesn't make sense. And when you're trying to figure out why it makes
sense. You go Gee, this deal doesn't make sense. Well, there you go better to find that out before you do the deal
then after you're already waist deep in it, and you have investors upset because things didn’t go as scripted. So |
think that that part's important. And the other thing is, is once you get good at presenting your investment thesis, it
gives you something to talk about, which will attract the right people even when you don't have a deal. And Robert
has said many times the best time to be out there building your brand and building your network and talking to
people is when you don't have a deal, because it takes all the sales pressure out of the conversation for you and for
the person you're talking with. And so this is really about just getting in touch with you guys. And hopefully you listen
to the show. Hopefully you read the newsletter. Hopefully you listen to a lot of other shows and read a lot of other
newsletters. And | can share with you the things that I'm watching and the things that I'm thinking. But there's also
i'm going to learn from you because there's probably things you're watching and you're thinking and listening to that
| haven't heard and maybe you're confused maybe say Hey, | heard you know George gammon say this or Robert
Kiyosaki say that or Ray Dalio or | read this in you know the Wall Street Journal and | don't get it and | made may
not have an answer or an opinion, but we can noodle on it together. And so this is kind of like a macro mastermind, if
you will, but really designed on how do we go back to the marketplace then and have something intelligent to say.
And then if you do have an investing thesis, if you say, Hey, here's what I'm thinking about doing, here's where | think
it makes sense, then we can either agree or disagree and have a little bit of a debate about whether or not your
investing thesis makes sense. Because better to get challenged on it in this environment, than to go out in the
marketplace and get challenged on it not have answers. So for lack of a better name, we're gonna call it clues in the
news. But the reality is, it's gonna be a little bit of a free for all about economics, the financial system, and investing
theses. And then we'll just kind of roll in, it'll evolve. So | don't have a big, big vision for it. Other than that, so | wanted
to get that out in the open. So with that said, I'm going to stop monologuing. And maybe since it's a small group, you
obviously chose to be here, if we could just go kind of round robin, and I'll call on you just to make it super easy. I'd
like to just kind of understand you've decided to invest your valuable time in tuning in today? Did you come with
specific question? Well, first of all, what made you decide to do it? What are you hoping to achieve? And number

two? Did you come with a specific question? So I'm going to start with Ben Dickey?

Ben 06:30

Hey, so | came today, largely to understand, but the things that I've been following that I'm trying to shape my
investing thesis around, are, there's been a lot of talk about the Federal Reserve, and money printing, and how the,
it's increasing the monetary supply. And there's been a whole lot of talk about how that will increase the value or the
relative value of gold to the dollar. But, um, and there's also been talk about, well, the US maintain that reserve
currency. And I’m curious to learn more about the impact that the Federal Reserve uses with swap lines with other
countries, and how that creates a dependency on the dollar. And if you know how those swap lines will sort of
interact and, and work within things like bond yields, gold prices, and overall in the economic environment, how the,
how that will affect, | guess, different commodity prices?

Russ 07:40

Okay. So | think you guys probably figured out that is a, like a MBA course that we would have to go through and
probably spend a lot of time on. Not that it isn't a good question it is. And | think that what I'm going to ask all of
you to do is learn how to kind of cut through all of that and get to like, a core question. And then ask yourself, why
does it matter? If | knew the answer to that, how would | use it? So I'm going to ask you, Ben, not to shrink it, because
that's hard. But But why is it important to you? Why do you want to know that,

ee RrAaaAan
JO

would do is | would make the opening statement. And then | would provide a three sources of proof. A quote from a
notable bull opinion, a news report, you know, maybe a case study some statistical | mean, some anecdotal
evidence, whatever it is, right? And you're going to take your your second best argument and put it right underneath
your thesis statement. That's going to be your first paragraph under your, your chapter title. second paragraph is
going to be your weakest argument and your weakest supporting, you know, state Statement proof, and then your
strongest argument is going to go third. And then at the end of that you're going to say in conclusion, or, you know,
so it's clear to see, or this is why so many people, depending on, you know how, how forcefully you want to draw the
conclusion, you know, feel this way, or this is why our team is convinced Our strategy is the right one. For today’s
market conditions, you see what I'm saying? Okay, and then how big that is, that could be a book, it could be a
special report, it could be a white paper, you could literally break it down into, you know, a half page or even a
paragraph. in, in, in your, in your business plan, right. And so you take the masterpiece, and then you just pare it
down, and get it down to its essence in the fewest words possible. Depending on where you need to be able to say it,
it's much harder to say something concisely than it is to say, you know, to say, you have a lot of words. So just start
out getting it all out. But then, you know, don't stop there work through until you get it really, really precise. But But,
you know, | want to, | want to make sure everybody understood. And when you go back and listen to this recording,
you know, what CEP did was he drew a series of conclusions, one conclusion after the other, no supporting proof, no
supporting argument, no supporting documentation, just boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. So that's the beginning
of the argument that you're going to make, not the end. And it isn’t an argument. It's just a series of conclusions.
You're asking someone, either they're going to agree with you or not, you're not going to persuade them. You're only
testing if they agree. If you want to persuade them, you're going to have to present your arguments.

41:49

That makes sense. Does Yeah. So | was | was trying to follow that that three tiered approach, but | think it was going
a little too forceful with the conclusions. So yeah, putting more of the endorsements, and not the endorsements. But
the arguments, the facts, the quotes, | think that would definitely be helpful.

Russ 42:09

And this is how you learn you have this is my whole thing. The reason? You know, the reason the news speaks to me is
because this is how I've been trained to read. When | read and somebody issues a, you know, a reporter makes
conclusion, oh, gold went up, because people are concerned about the election. That's a conclusion. They're they're
they're creating a correlation between cause and effect. But is there one? | mean, did they conduct interviews with
everybody that bought gold? That they bought it because of the election? No. reported financial reporters do this all
the time. The headline will be this happened, which is perhaps a factual statement, because of this, then you have to
ask yourself, well, is that why it happened? Do | agree with that? Do | not agree with that? Why would they be saying
that? Why do they believe that? And | read their piece do they make the case? What else could be the answer? Give
you give another example, in politics, | just had this conversation twice. This is private club. | can out my politics a
little bit, but it’s not really a political statement is kind of me with my conspiracy theory on hat on. But you know, so
the Twin Towers went down, two planes knocked down three buildings in a controlled demolition. Okay, just at face
value. That didn't make much sense to me. Right later on, we find that there was some things in the basement of that
third building that didn’t get hit, that all sudden disappeared. Hmm, that’s interesting. All right. Well, | don’t think that
much about it. Now, we decide that these passports magically fell out of the airplane that incinerated these towers,
and managed to survive the fire and we find it we're like, oh, look at where these people are from and so off, we go
to Afghanistan, to go after al Qaeda. We get there in Al Qaeda and then all sudden just out of the blue we decided
hey, let's go down and take out Saddam Hussein. And | remember when that happened, I'm like, What the hell did
that happen for? So then | listened to what they said it happened for and first it was weapons of mass destruction.
Okay, well, you know, our friend Simon black was in intelligence and at that time he said that they were reporting
there were no weapons of mass destruction in the prison United States is on TV telling everybody there are if you've
been around Simon and heard him tell that story, you know, that's true. Same thing happen to Kiyosaki Kiyosaki was
in Vietnam and figured out that he was there under false pretense. So okay, all right. You know so So then the
question would be okay, if they didn't go in to take Saddam Hussein out because of weapons of mass destruction.
Why did they and then you go back and you start looking at everything said on the saying had done and I'll give you
the short story right? In 1971. We came off the gold standard Europe got up Set and decided to form an alternative
currency to the dollar took them from 1971 till 1999 to create the Euro soon as they announced the Euro in 1999 |
remember reading the article set on Hussein said hey let's settle oi] not in dollars in euro so said I'm saying when
after the Petro dollar and he's gone right Gaddafi decided they wanted he wanted a gold back dinar. And he’s gone.
Hugo Chavez wanted to repatriate 150 tons of gold, did it and he’s gone. Right? And then we wanted to get it back.
And so we crush Venezuela's economy for whatever reason, and they have to cough up all their role to the Bank of
England and then ultimately, push them into default and Bank of England refuses to give them their gold back. Okay,
so that's context. So you know, | have this book here, written by a member of the Parliament, an MP, they call it
Member of Parliament in Britain named kwasi kwarteng, and he talks about war, and the relationship of gold to the
wars. Well, I'm less interested in war than | am in gold. But | can understand what's happening with gold by looking
at what's happening in politics or geopolitics. That makes sense. So, now, am | saying that that's what happened?
No, that's my thesis Will | ever know, | may never know. It makes for an interesting conversation. But what it’s taught
me to believe my thesis is is a gold has a much bigger role in the world than folks realize. And so | watched the flow
of gold and | watched the behavior of the ultimate insiders of currency and some of you know that | talked about in
2019 when the central bank's bought record amounts of gold and you think to myself Why would the central bank's
buy record amounts of gold because they can print as much currency as they want? What what's the role of gold
and then gold became a tier one asset for banks and central banks. So like Oh, that's interesting. And the gold
community is always complaining about gold being suppressed in price and then | and then recently, we watched
the big run up in Bitcoin and | thought to myself, God, that's interesting. So the first time it ran up, and they they put
it in the futures market, and that crushed the price and kept it pretty static. It put the powers that be in control of
Bitcoin and remember telling my wife and anybody that was listening to me at the time ago, that’s the end of that
because they're treating it like gold. And unless said it went on this big run. And | thought to myself, okay, what's the
narrative there? Well, you know, they're putting all these dollars and people are afraid, blah, blah, blah, you know,
Bitcoin Bitcoin, okay? What would be an alternative narrative? And | said, Well, what if the people who have the
ability to print money really want to buy gold, but they need people who already own it to let go, they need people
who would be inclined to buy it for the same reason they want to buy it not to buy it? What if we could put an idea
out in the marketplace that said, Hey, Bitcoin is the new gold. And then we could print a bunch of money and bid the
Bitcoin up and and go look everybody shiny object, and get a bunch of people to dump their gold or not buy gold
and go chase Bitcoin in pursuit of dollars, which we can print, abandoned the gold, which we then buy. Now, is that
happening? I'm not saying that's happening. It's just an alternative thesis that kind of fits the facts. Again, it doesn't
mean it happened. But I'm watching. If more and more stuff happens, that fits that narrative that doesn't fit the
formal narrative, then more and more of my belief system says, that's more likely what happened, then the other,
right, but it’s all based on this concept that I've learned in observing for decades that gold has a much bigger role in
the financial system than everybody wants to admit. And so the question is, if that's true, do | want to own more or
less of it? And do | want to use it as a trading vehicle to collect dollars? Or do | want to use it for something else? And
that's what the precious equity series all grew out of finding people that agree that hey, just like | would like to have
properties that are paid for with equity. Why would | rather have the equity stripped out of the property sitting in my
safe, | have the same amount of equity, but if anything happens to the property, | still have the equity. If | lose that
property and foreclosure, | still have it. If the income stream on the property goes away, doesn’t matter to me,
because | have the equity. Anyway, that's how all that ties in. Right? That's just an example. Some of the outputs that
you see come from me in terms of my financial strategies are growing out of my study of economics and politics. But
when | study politics, I'm studying it from the perspective of how is it impacting the financial system and the
economics and | agree with Jared right now. There's definitely an effort being made by powerful forces to undermine
the United States and their hegemonic role, dominant role with their currency in their financial system. And | think
that's extremely well chronicled. | know because I've chronicled it myself. So if that's true, the question coming back
full circle, | think to Craig or other people, maybe Ben is like, well, what's the end game here? What? What happens?
Where's the pressure? Well, the pressure is clearly on the currency. And that goes back full circle to the 2016
December 2020 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Clues
in the New...

@ Mon, 10/111:24PM © 1:09:37

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, question, thesis, investment thesis, money, yield, investors, gold, happening, understand, talk, blockchain, currency,

investing, buy, read, dollar, news, economics, agree

SPEAKERS

Russ, Craig Kamman, Ben, Jarrid Cavanaugh

Russ 00:17

Hey everybody, it's Russ. And we're here for syndication mentoring club. clues in the news asked mentors is what
we're calling it. And this is our inaugural episode or edition, so not exactly sure how it’s gonna go. But let me kind of
tell you what | had in mind. And we it looks like we got a good group of people here. So kind of excited about that.
The The purpose of this is really just to understand that we're in the financial business, and people are constantly
thinking about their money, and are being promoted or, you know, stimulated with the news to be thinking about
their money, and often to, to to worry about it, right, the idea that it's it’s, you know, fear uncertainty and doubt is
what sells newspapers. And there's been a fair amount of agenda. You know, the news isn't the way it used to be. It
used to be the news, reporters would just report the news, you know, just the facts. And then you would decide, today,
almost all news is opinion, a lot of financial news is about people talking their book or promoting a particular
agenda, or defending a particular agenda. And so it's gets really, really hard for investors to understand what's going
on, there are obvious things that, you know, are happening that make no sense we have a record stock market high
and record unemployment, that makes no sense, right, we have all of this locked down. And yet, for some reason,
somehow, our GDP appears to be doing well, that that makes no sense, right? We have a lot of political unrest. And
so there's uncertainty about are we going to have jobs are we gonna have trade wars, there's just a lot of things
going on. Most people don't know what to think, because in order to interpret all this noise, you have to have a
degree of financial education. So my thesis and kind of where | positioned myself, especially over the last 10 years,
but most of my career, is that we are in the age of information overload, there’s so much information out there
coming at people, about their money, and about the economy, and about what's going on a lot of it with an agenda,
which is designed to sell you something and often not in your best interest. That that, that there's an opportunity for
someone to come along and position themselves not as a source of information, but as a source of wisdom, a source
of context. And you look at a guy like g Edward Griffin, who's been publishing what used to be unfiltered news, and is
now called need to know, but he looks at what's going on, and he curates it. And then he comments on it and shares
it with his audience. And what they're interested in is not just the news, but they're interested in his take on the news.
And obviously, you know, it’s kind of been my role at the real estate guys. And you know, we don't make it the main
thing, we talk about a lot of different stuff. But, you know, | tell you, | think that there's a big opportunity for all of you
to begin to position yourselves that way to bring something unique. | can tell you from my own experience, it takes a
lot of time, it takes a lot of study, it takes a lot of work to stay on top of everything and to think about it. But as
syndicators one of the most important things that you are bringing to the party before your deal is your investment
thesis is what what are you doing? And why does it make sense in the context of what's going on in the world. And |
JO

O
()

every time we get together, then you know, we're we maybe won't be able to go as deep and everybody won't be
able to get their question answered. So I'll make sure that membership sends out a reminder every time with the
invitation. But again, for those of you that are here that are watching after the fact, if you want your question
answered, send send the question to membership for the clues in the new we're just called cruising the news for now.
ATM and and and ask Tell me what you want to know. And why you want to know it? In other words, how you're
going to use it. | mean, really think about your why make it relatively relevant. Ask yourself why if everybody in the
club learns this thing that | want to know, how will it help them be a better syndicator in terms of raising more
money, or making better investment decisions? Right? If you can't answer that way, then it's probably not a great
question or at least a useful question. That’s how you make sure it's effective. Sep, you got one thing in closing?

1:07:10

Yeah. Just throwing an idea. | remember the old syndication mentoring club from I'm sorry, the old mentoring come
from like, 10 years ago, you and Robert would post an article on the projector so everyone can see it, like a Yahoo
Finance, whatever it is, and then you guys would read it, and then you dissect it is do you think that makes sense for
the group? Maybe next? Next meeting, if you can show us how you analyze an article and how you approach it from
a syndicator? or real estate investor? No,

Russ. 1:07:35

yes or no. That was my segment clues in the news. That's where clues and news was born. Because it made it easy. |
always think pivoting off the news makes it super easy to create content. But again, | don’t want to make this a
lecture. | want to make it really real world and to me, real world. Now if you find an article, and you say, Hey, | read
this article, | don't understand it. Or | read this article, and here’s what | think it means. But I'd be curious to hear
what you think it means or what other people think it means. And here's why. | want to know, because it will help me
be a better it'll help me raise more money because and lay it out. Or it will help me make better investment decisions
because and lay it out. And this is an exercise in helping you get better in asking better questions, and understanding
how to take the answers and put them into you. So you don't waste time asking questions that don't matter. Just
because they're intellectually stimulating. We can have those conversations we do that on the summit, but | want to
make this super practical tactical. What do you want to know? Why do you want to know it? How are you going to
use it to raise more money or make better investment decisions? Okay, got it. That's the way you want to handle it.
Okay gentlemen, since it's all gentlemen really appreciate your time today hope that was worth your while. If If you
have constructive criticism, feel free to shoot a membership and email let them know | will personally make sure |
look at all of it. But this thing is just going to continue to evolve and into what | hope turns out to be something super
useful that sets you apart is you're out there competing not with each other but with Wall Street for for funds. Okay?

All right, everybody. Have a great day and not sure when I'll talk to you again, but happy holidays.

1:09:24
Thank you. Take care. Thank you.
Precisely? Precisely. And so in Good job, Chris. So the reason | bring that up is because is because you have to
understand when you're dealing with investors, there's there’s two basic categories. There's the people who are trying
to make money, and you have to sell them hope and opportunity. And there are the people who are wanting to
protect or avoid loss. And they're pivoting off of fear, uncertainty, and doubt. In my experience, people who have
more tend to want to play more defense, if you just watch a typical game, I'm going to use football because you
know, that used to be my favorite sport. You see a football team build up a big lead and all sudden, everything they
did to build that big lead, they quit doing, they quit stretching the field, they quit playing the long ball, they quit
taking chances, and less than they tried to sit on that lead, they go into prevent defense. They don't want to give up
the long ball. They give up a lot underneath and they're trying to run out the clock right? And their philosophy
changes investors to the same way you know, you take more risks when you're trying to build your first million or 2
million or 5 million than when you're trying to hold the 10 or 20 million that you've accumulated. You don't need any
more money. You just don't want to lose what you've accumulated. That makes sense. So understand when you're
talking to somebody, you have to be able to take whatever is going on in the news and pick whichever side of the
coin, you think you want to shine the light on based on who you're talking to. So if you're talking to somebody that is,
you know, still very much in growth mode, you want to offer them hope and opportunity. In other words, how can we
take what's going on in the marketplace that looks scary, and recognize the premise that the flip side of all chaos or
challenge, or problem is opportunity? And so what's the opportunity here, and then you begin to talk about hope and
opportunity. Now the person if you're talking to somebody who's already got a lot, you might say, Hey, you know, the
first order of business before you talk about growing your wealth, is to make sure you don't lose your wealth. You
know, what do you what's your thought on that, and you let them either agree or disagree, because anytime you're
going to build an argument on a premise, you have to you have to clearly establish the premise before you go
further. | just got done. Since this is about clues in the news and kind of economics, | just got done read reading, I'm
actually listening to but | also have a hard copy of the book, Stephanie Kelton, his book modern, on modern
monetary theory called the deficit myth. And modern monetary theory, if you're not familiar with it, it basically is the
idea that the issuer of a currency, somebody that can print their own money can borrow as much money or issue as
many bonds as they want in that currency. And there's no threat of default, because they can always print as much
currency as you need to pay the debt. Therefore, it's impossible for them to go bankrupt. This is what they believe.
And so they say, then what, but is it possible to print too much? Yes, it's possible to print too much Well, how do you
know? Well, you know, if you have inflation, so her premise, and she built her entire case on is that as long as there's
no inflation, you're free to print money. Of course, as soon as | heard her establish her premise, | asked myself, do |
agree with that premise? Because if | don't, then anything, she says that builds on that premise, is not going to work
with me, I'm going to listen. But I'm always going to be hindered. So it’s the same thing when you're having a
conversation with your people. And you put your investing thesis out there, and you build it on a premise, you have to
make sure they agree with the premise, or even understand it, or find out how they feel about it before you move on.
Does that make sense? So for whatever it's worth, in this particular case, | disagree with her premise. And here’s the
reason why having run businesses, and most of you are, you know, have some experience and that clearly she never
has. Because when you run a business, you spend a lot of time investing in technology processes, people training,
trying to take costs out, there's two ways to improve your bottom line, you can raise the price, which rising prices in
her worldview are is inflation, or you can lower your costs. And if you're successful at lowering your costs enough, you
take part of your savings, your productivity gain, and you pass it along to your customers in the form of lower prices,
in order to gain a competitive advantage over your competition that isn’t as efficient. Well, you're doing that the
money printers are working against you, because they're stealing all of your productivity gains to push the price up.
And they think that they're not doing any damage, as long as the price doesn't go up. But they have stolen all of the
hard work you put in to creating a benefit for yourself and for your customers and in cutting costs. Does that make
sense? And | learned to think that way, when Alan Greenspan said in the 1990s, that there was inflation really wasn't
a problem because of all the productivity gains through technology. Okay, when he when he said that, | said, Hmm,
do | agree, or do | disagree? And what does that really mean? And what | realized what he was saying is we're
printing money to steal the productivity gains of technology, things should be getting cheaper, people should be
getting richer, because people should be able to buy more for less. But instead, we're printing money and keeping
the price up. So you see, you see how an economic understand, you know, and that's why that's why Keynes said that

inflation is a way for the government or the the agents of the government to steal from the public. And it not one
JO

JO

presentation to the future of money and wealth, the attack on the dollar? Do you have an investment thesis that's
hedged against the dollar? Peter has a way of approaching it, | have a different way of approaching it. The question
is, do you do your investors? Do you think it's necessary? You may or may not? Now, | can take it a step further, which
you may or may not like, but you can take it a step further and say, Well, if if | find an investment thesis, even if |
don't agree with it, but people will buy it, could | sell it? Well, | think | think so. | mean, you know, could you sell
something that you disagree with? Even though you know it? It makes financial sense. In other words, it works. If
enough people believe that it’s real. Yeah, | don't know that that's, that’s an ethical decision I'll make you make I'm,
I'm not a fan. You know, | don't like to have to try to worry about it. | just be who | am. And | attract who | attract.

And if people don't like who | am and what | stand for, that's okay. There's other tribes to belong to don't belong to
mine. And that's okay. Anyway, so there was a lot there. But, you know, good, good question. And we're not going to
get to a lot as you can tell, because I’m going to cap this at an hour. But, john, let's have you go. And let's see where

we end up.

52:14

| don't have a question, really just here to listen, but | love to make some comments on some of the things you were

curious

Russ 52:21

what brought you here? | mean, you decided to come in, you're going to invest time, what what did you come into
this particular estimate or session? hoping it could be Hey, I’m just curious. It could be Hey, | see an opportunity to |
don't know, you tell me.

52:39

Well, I've been on every call that was available. Since | joined, | don't see any point of joining something and not
taking advantage of it. There's a lot of people on the call that know things and have done things that | haven't done.
So if | can benefit from their stubbed toes. So be it that's why | put my five grand on the table, right? I'm here to listen
and hear what everybody else is thinking. | don’t quite have my investing thesis solidified yet. | have premises | have
worldview | have, the way | think things may pan out. So now I'm thinking, Okay, what is the investment thesis that
fits my worldview? And that's what I'm trying to work out. And there's short term, medium term, long term plays. So

you know, I'm here to listen and learn.

Russ 53:41

Okay, good stuff. And | think sometimes that’s true. Like the first time | did a rehab, | didn’t know what | didn't know.
And | spent the first two weeks just walking up and down the aisles at Home Depot, and you know, going to their
classes and watching what | could on TV, and | didn't buy anything or touch anything. | was just trying to get ideas.
And then based on that collection of ideas, | picked out the stuff | liked, and | actually wouldn't did my rehab.
Nothing wrong with that. So | think that makes good sense. So let's, let's do this couple things. I'm going forward.
When you're coming into this, do your best to write your questions down if it's something specific in the news, and
then and then pre submit them, because we won't have time to pull everybody. And the challenge with this particular
topic is that any one question is a deep dive in so we won't be able to just like rapid fire through a bunch of questions
are gonna be pretty, pretty deep dive to really get there and I'd rather spend quality time on a hot topic that
everybody's interested in and develop a really useful piece of content then just give, you know, kind of superficial
treatment to a bunch of things. If | can be in and out quick | will be not really my specialty. But more importantly, |
it's pretty obvious there’s a huge wave of seniors coming that are going to need affordable housing, it’s pretty
obvious that there’s a widening income gap and all the new builds are too expensive for low, low cost housing. So
those are good, but really the one I’m less looking at, | guess, | come from my own background. | just I'm less looking
at what is going to happen necessarily to the dollar currency as a whole. I'm more in the next 12 to 18 months. I'm
looking at how far the US Gov And some of our allies are going to go to protect our standing in the world against
China. And | think that the answer to that question will directly correlate to what happens to the currency. And it’s
going to be the actions of our government or lack of actions that kind of force our hand. So that's what I'm looking
at on a ona macro picture.

Russ 30:20

Yeah, | think that’s great. You know, policies definitely affect the economy, obviously, the policy to shut everything
down huge impact, right, a policy, a monetary policy that affects interest rates, huge impact, the fact that the dollar
is the world's reserve currency, and there's things that go on in the world geopolitically, to try to protect that, or to
attack that if you're on the other side, could have a huge impact on interest rates on the value of bonds. And on a lot
of things, trade policies, obviously, you know, Trump came in with his tariffs and all of that, that that potentially had
impact. The idea of trying to bring back manufacturing is a policy, the policies that created an environment that
drove manufacturing offshore. So you cannot be an investor and not deal with policies, the challenge is making sure
you don't become political. And there's two threats in that one is, is that you start to filter everything that is coming
at you through the lens of how you think things should be or what your preferences are. So if you read, you know, our
stuff, we spent a lot of time making the argument that you have to be agnostic, you have to just look at what's going
on, take it at face value, or at least understand the opposite point of view, even if you completely disagree. That's

why | decided it would be good for me to get out of my echo chamber and read Stephanie Kelton, his book, you
know, not that she convinced me but if | was reading it on Amazon, | would still give it five stars, because | felt like
she did a great job explaining her case, | understood what she was saying, even though | disagreed with it, or at least
parts of it. And it was really enlightening to me to understand the spirit of what she was trying to do. And the reason
why there's so much passion on the side of the folks that you know, are advocating for things that | disagree with.
That's important, because you are going to get involved in conversations with investors that don't look at the world
the way you do. And when that happens, you have to be empathetic with their position. And at the same time, you
have to explain your investing thesis based on what's really happening. Because just like you, you are going to have a
prejudice. And you're going to dislike something because it goes against the way you think it should be. Your
investors are going to maybe push back against your investing thesis, because it may be built upon a premise they
don't like or they disagree with. And you have to be prepared to understand their position first, because every
objection starts with an understanding of the person on the other side step | understand what you're saying, | know
exactly how you felt, | have felt the same way. I've talked to many people that feel that way. But I've done it quite a
bit of research. And what I've realized when | look at the facts is it’s a bigger story. Much of what you say is true,
much of what the other side say is true. And when you put it all in a blender, try to navigate through, what | found
out is is that regardless of what | think or feel should happen, nobody's asking me my opinion, based on what's likely
to happen. Here's my investing thesis. Now you've just fused the politically but | just did the feel felt found technique.
So for those of you who've been through the training, saw it | tried to be overt enough in it that you could pick up on
it, but | tried to also be nuanced enough in it, it wasn't blatantly obvious. How many of you caught it. Okay, to two.
Okay. And how many have been through the how to find win funds and influence people, at least on the video. Okay,
so So Ben, | just used the technique when you do the technique, right? If you if you're really a master, people don't
even know you've done it. It's invisible. But you've done it. But the feel felt found technique is how you empathize with
somebody. And then you move them from where they are to where you need them to be. And you can't empathize
with somebody effectively if you don't really understand their position. So | feel like | could have a, you know, a
respectful, rational, intellectual conversation with Stephanie Kelton. You know, what | wouldn't do is be the person
who goes on and say, Well, obviously you've never run a business and you're not qualified to have an opinion and
bah, bah, blah, blah, blah, right? Because that's attacking the messenger. What | want to do is | just want to focus on
the message and the premise The message was built on and then | want to empathize and this but here's what |
Ben US:15

um, | am looking at ideas to syndicate, and | have a investment thesis or a apotheosis, that savings for individuals is
going to decrease and asset prices are going to go up, which will increase the demand for things like single family
homes, but essentially put individuals in a position where they're going to need to rent. And so when you look at
levers like that, and also the demand of the baby boomers coming out of the market, and the need for things like

assisted living, and things like that, where to prioritize my energy as far as the projects that | want to go tackle.

Russ 09:06

Okay, so again, we're gonna try to go for brevity. And this is a skill set, it takes time it’s not easy Believe me, you
know, those newsletters, you read that | get down to 1000 words typically, or 2000 words before when | start, and |
gotta go through and | got to trim it. It's not easy. But in order to be impactful in conversations, elevator pitches,
when you get a chance to be interviewed or put on stage you got to learn how to say a lot and a little. And it's got
you got to figure out kind of what and why that's the two things you're after, what do | want to know? Why do | want
to know it? And be able to communicate that really, really quickly? Because the thing is, you can say, you know, you
can turn it around in a conversation and you can say, Hey, here's something I've learned, and here's why it's
important. It's just a different spin on the same concept. But if people buy off on it, now we'll send you've got
something to talk about, but if there's if there’s swimming Round in a lot of words, and they can't figure out what
you're saying, then there’s no compensation. Right? Okay, so if | could take and being a good listener, and this is
good for all of you, as you listen, you say, Okay, what is he really saying? He's saying, | am trying to figure out how a
falling dollar how | should invest in the face of a falling dollar? Because you talked about gold, you talked about
currency swaps, you basically talked about the dollar, you talked about the dollar losing value, inflation and asset

prices rising. So out of all those words, that was basically what you said. Yes, that's what | heard that,

Ben 10:38
right. Yes, you did that.

Russ 10:41

Yeah. And that's okay. And so that's what you have to learn to do. Right? as a salesperson, people talk a lot and you
have to cut through and get get rid of all the, the, the foliage, if you will, so you can just kind of see the branch, and
you track the branch back down to the trunk and take the trunk all the way down to the roots. And the roots are the
why, you know, if you look at the organism that we have in syndication, mentor, club, mission, vision values, that's the
heart and soul when you're going to dig down to somebody's heart. And so, but you're starting, you're starting way
out in the branches, and you're you're floundering around in the foliage. And that's the way it is for most people. So if
you can use that word picture, it's kind of what | use, in my mind, when I'm talking to you, | realized that okay, you're
wandering around out here at the edge, and you're you're lost in the leaves, and you know, the whatever you want to
call it, and I've got to, | got to move all that aside, | got to prune all that away and try to figure out, get the heart of
what you're saying and track it all the way down to why you really want to know it. So your first why was Hey, | want
to understand this, then if | were to take it a second why, and I'm just going to jump the gun and assume it so that
you can have a unique, a unique selling proposition that you that your investment has meaning in the context of
what's going on. Something Right, yeah. Okay. And that's going to be common to everybody. But just because |
assumed that if | was talking to you in a sales environment, excuse me, and this is in a sales class, but everything
sales, | would be asking your questions until you said it. And then | would ask you another question to make sure you
know, you set it so that we would be both very clear on exactly what you want. Why you really really want it. Right?

That sales. Okay, so | got you so Chris Mackenzie, let's do you next?
