JO

some of the due diligence, that's something you guys guys may want to consider as well, because it just shows a level
of attention to detail and especially as syndicators, your bookkeeping, your your your books, making sure that your
entities insurances are all kept up and in good standing is just a really, really not just important practice, because of
the quality level, but also, just from the marketing perspective is just demonstrating that you're somebody that stays
on top all that. So john, are you are you unmute yourself again, let's see if your audios improved. I'm here Is that

good? Yep. Sounds good. So far.

31:29

All right. Yeah, Russell, you've that's exactly it, you summed it up perfectly. Alright, so my question, I've got a very
specific timeline for moving into the syndication space that started in August. And coming up in January, my next
phase, is to start thinking about creating for myself an aura of authority and thought leadership with respect to the
areas of wealth preservation, and, and wealth creation, around syndication and real estate in such, although now it
doesn't even have to be real estate when | see but guys like circle doing, but so that's the next phase, creating that
thought leadership. I'm looking at your material that comes to my inbox regularly. And thinking how absolutely
fantastic and perfect. It is. And I'm a big believer in you know, do what you do best and let somebody else do what
you don't do best i can tell you are too would it be hurtful to your the real estate guys smcs brand, if for only
members, so not the public. But if you could white label that content for members, I'd pay 2995 a month or 3995 a
month extra for a white label version of the content you put out. And it’s staying within the family. It's not, you're not
selling it to anyone else. It all ultimately circles back to your brand. Because we're all It could even be co branded.
But the point is, why recreate the wheel, you could have a revenue generating source, you're writing it anyway. And
you'd be boosting the overall credibility of everyone within the SMC family. So that’s the question.

Russ 33:48

So there's two parts to the question. And the first part is, you know, if you've got content that exists in the
marketplace, rather than try to come up with it yourself, if you agree with it, it supports your investing thesis. Just
leverage it. And | think that's great. So whether you choose to, you know, write your own stuff, which is a heavy lift
that can tell you or you decide to kind of do a pseudo thing where you kind of talk about it with a writer and let them
write it for you. So it's kind of your ideas, but they're doing the writing. That’s another way to find leverage. You can
do a curation process where you comment like Ed Griffin and his need to know news he does that he looks at third
party articles. He redistributes them to his list and adds his own commentary. People do that on YouTube channels a
lot. You'll see them they'll take an existing YouTube that they apparently have rights to or somehow are able to
access. | don't know how all that part works. But then they comment on it. | comment a lot lot on third party, | link to
third party a lot. So it's kind of a practice of what | do. And so | don’t worry about doing the research or doing the
information gathering, what | do is | provide context to the pre existing content, | create wisdom, that to go along
with the information. And then someone like Andrew, Illinois at Four Peaks partners, they hire a company who does
their writing for them. And so you can do all of those things as far as us doing that, we, we would have to be a lot
bigger than we are to, to do that. | mean, we'd have to be when we get to 1000s of members, maybe | would think
about doing that. But | don't think that that's really the answer. | think that | think that because because you know,
you may really think, Hey, this is great stuff. But you know, out of our little ragtag group of people, there might be
only 10 or 20% of the people that feel the same way. And it would support their investment thesis, one of the things
we are going to be doing is we're adding a new ask the mentors call. So we're going to be doing this same thing. And
we're calling it clues in the news. But it’s, that's really kind of a misnomer, because it's not going to be so much clues
in the news, it's going to be more about what's going on in the world. And in the in the economy. And what kind of
investing strategies and tactics make sense, which markets, which financing structures, if any, you know how you deal
with whatever is going on in the world. So we didn't quite know what to call it. So we just called it clues in the news
for now. But it'll evolve. And then you can probably take the things that you get out of that call and turn around and
use that to create content. So | think that, don't wait for me to come up with that kind of a service for the club. |
© Russ 49:00

JO

Well, if you're, if you're gonna go mass marketing, you know, if you get yourself in front of a big audience, then you're
going to put your stuff out there and only, only a subset of that audience is going to respond. So you you, you put the
bait out there that is going to attract the people you want to work with. Okay, right, me if | get if | go out, you know,
and talk about my precious equity strategy, which is what I'm working on right now. Then the people who believe in
gold would rather have their equity in gold than in real estate are going to respond. People who hate gold people
who think Bitcoin is the new gold, they're not going to respond. They're gonna think I'm crazy, and that's okay.
Because I'm not fishing for them. I'm not trying to catch everybody. I'm trying to catch the people who are going to
want to do that strategy. People who are afraid of debt aren't going to like me because | | believe that in a market
like this, you want to collect as much debt as you can. Because there their debt is an asset, it’s not a liability. And
they're inflating in a way that makes the debt more valuable. Depending on how you use it, obviously, you don't want
to consume debt, the proceeds of debt, but if you invest it, then it makes a lot of sense. But that’s a thesis, that's an
investing thesis. And you have to be able to make that case. You know, in seps business plan, we talked about the
importance of putting your investing thesis in your story, it’s part of why does my deal make sense in today’s
environment, you have to be able to say that. And so you can always go out and talk about a specific deal, you may
not have one, or you might not be allowed because of your exemption to be able to talk about it. But what you can
talk about is your investment thesis, you can talk about why you do what you do, why you believe it makes sense
now, and if you can defend that, then the people who agree with you are going to step forward that your avatar, and
then as you get to know them better, you'll define them better, you'll find out that they, you know, come from a
certain background, or they have a certain way of thinking or they have a certain financial status, or education or
certain paradigms or prejudices or experiences or wounds or fears, whatever it is. Anyway, so we were digressing
from operations, let’s see if we can come back to operations.

51:21

Can | have one one point on that too, real quick, from falling up on on Ross's point, great piece of advice, he given
less than a circle call was at the end of the newsletter, to invite your avatar the reader to forward it over to a friend or
co worker or family member to make it so it’s more social proof that way right word for it, but just to make it so that
you know if they find value that they’re going to share with other people with their conversations with and it's a good
way to point it back to you.

Russ 51:52

Yeah, | mean, at the end of every email we have, we encourage people to share and in their enlightened self interest,
the bigger our list gets, the more people who listened, the more guests and perspectives we can bring to you. So help
us grow. So we can digital

Craig Kamman_ 52:05

content shouldn't be part of the operations then.

Russ 52:11

Yeah, you have to build operations around everything. operations is a support function, right? you design your
marketing plan, your recruiting plan, your deal sourcing and vetting plan, and you figure out what all things have to

happen to facilitate your business and then you build operations around that you don't build your business. | mean,
Jo

JO

you know, with respect operations people, you don't let the operational tail wag the business dog, you figure out
what your business is. And based on your business, you you build operations to support your, your, your business, the
way you want to do business. You know, | like to teach | built a business around teaching because that’s what | like.
And | like to read and | like to research and | like to strategize. So | put my role in our business to do those things,
what | don't like to do is build and manage teams and stay on top of details, you know, Stacy's great at that so that’s
what she does. And so in the beginning, you're doing everything and you're gonna have to do some stuff you don't
like but as soon as you identify that you know you don't just let it go neglected you quickly get somebody on board
who can do that. And the thing is, again, you always have to be mindful every every business person always has to
know the shortest path, the cash because whatever you want to get off your plate has to be paid for. So the first
thing you have to do is make sure you can breathe right if you see somebody in triage in a hospital, the first thing
they check his vitals and the most important vital is are you breathing. If you're not breathing, everything stops we
got to get you breathing. The other thing is is your heart beating. So in other words is money is money coming in and
is circulating. If it's not, then you're dead as a business. So that's your most important thing to do. And then you build
systems around that. So you have to know how you make money and you have to get everything in place to support
the making of money and that's your first and most vital system life support is your most vital system on a spaceship
got to have life support everything nothing else matters if you don't have life support. So nothing matters if you don't
have something to sell in a way to take in cash and distribute cash to where it needs to be distributed to keep
everybody on board. Keep the thing rolling. Sounds like common sense but again it’s easy to get lost in the weeds
and and lose the main thing. Always keep the main thing the main thing money in money flowing to where it needs
to go. Everything supports that. Okay, what else? Any more questions?

54:50

Yeah, | got a quick one. And yeah, follow up a couple things. You mentioned the four R's but | missed one of them. |
got read research and it had finished with right what was the third one While relate, relate,

Russ 55:02

yeah, relate is really important. Because relating is how it relates to you, your life, your experience, its context. So
reading is just understanding what the author is saying just reading is taking the information in researching is
checking those premises, making sure that what you're reading is factual, that it makes sense. Maybe, you know,
trying to understand concepts, some concepts or words, you know, | find a lot of times I’m checking definitions of
words as I'm reading. But relating is about what does this really mean? What does it mean to me? What does it
mean to my investors? What does it mean to my mission? What does it mean? And then writing is just learning to
express it is getting it out in Word format. And | like writing not so much that | like it because it takes a long time. I'm
a lousy typer. | like to do longhand, | journal a lot. But that processing of the information by writing it is, is almost as
good as having a conversation. It's like having a conversation with yourself, it slows your mind down. It lets you
process and if you look at our Kiyosaki in the cone of learning talks about how you learn, you know, you take the
information in, and then you process it in a conversation with someone and then hopefully, if it’s actionable, you put
it in action in the real world. And that's how it really cements into into knowledge and you integrate it into your, into

your brain and your mind into your habits.

56:38

Great sense.
and do fancy acrobatic moves, right. So there's a process you go through. And | think this is really just going back to
what Stacy's opening comments were. And we see this a lot. It's just people trying to eat the whole dinosaur, because
| need to get mad when | say elephant all at once, and you just don't have to, you can have a vision for what you
want to be. But you know, the journey of 1000 steps, miles begins with the first step. And that's why | have that
priority system because it helps you. It helps you decide when something is worth the time and effort. And and you
know, for those of you that haven't read turning pro, by Steve pressfield, and | know, CEP, you have, you know, you
have to understand a lot of this administrative stuff is resistance is people finding things that they feel like they need
to do they elevate to this high level of importance, in order to hide from the thing they really need to do, which is go
engage with investors and face rejection and all that. And again, the cure, the cure to rejection is curiosity. | don't
really care if the person says yes or no, | just want to find out. And then it takes all the all the fear away. So anyway,
so we have a couple more questions. So I'm going to call that one a wrap. And then let's let's move on to Ben Dickey.

So Ben, you have a question.

© Ben 17:38

Hey, guys, I’m pretty tactical, but I've got | can get given a background. But I've constantly run into a problem with
LLCs going and active. And | just was curious if what you guys had found as best practices as far as just keeping
track and making sure that those stay active?

© Russ 17:59

Well, to me, it's a you, you hire somebody super organized and put them in charge of it. And then I'm done with it.
Stacy has systems | know, you know, individual calendars, team calendars and whatnot. So I'll let her comment on
that.

(s) Staci Gray 18:13

Yeah, my whole thing is, if it’s not on the calendar, it doesn’t exist. Because if it’s in your inbox or on a spreadsheet, or
in somebody's Notepad, somewhere, it doesn't exist. So everything it’s been in the calendar,

& Russ 18:27

in your case, because you're you're running a team, it's a master, it's a master calendars, people might have their like
| have my own individual calendar. But | take giant time blocks, and | assign it to the team. And then they book me.
And during those blocks, when I've made myself available to the team, everybody on the team can look at the
master calendar and see what I'm doing. And on that calendar is also events, tasks that need to be done. Everything
that is time driven, which pretty much everything is exists on this one master calendar that feeds a lot of individual
calendars.

) Staci Gray 19:06

And then all of our calendar items are linked linked directly to the SOP, or what needs to happen in order for that
calendar item to happen. So if some it and then as soon as somebody does it, they put done in front of it. So
everybody knows that that task was completed.
9 Russ 23:08

master to me because it’s not me

® Staci Gray 23:11

use G Suite. And we it’s not Google Drive, it's G Suite, which is the business version of Google Drive. So it's the
enterprise version. So you have team shared drives, you have team calendars, and then we we categorize based on
our business categories. So then when we do your three day during your three day we actually go through and
create what your business categories are. And then those become the categories that your Google Drive is set up in
your calendar set up in your CRM is set up in everything is set up with those business categories, so it's uniform

across all platforms. So if you are doing a webinar or if you're doing a third party appearance, or if you're doing a
syndication and you're the name of your syndication has been Dickie syndication then that would be the calendar
and everything related to that project would be put on that calendar and then invites would be sent out to whoever
needed to be invited to it and then to Craig's point, the way you can only look at what you want to see if you check
just that calendar and you see only that calendar if you want to see all of them you check all of them. | have all of it
checked and | just see everything but it's all color coordinated so if it's green, | have to do it anything that's not green
doesn't apply to me. Um, so that’s how we organize it and it works in the team knows their color coordination. So the
ones that are a certain color maybe Yolanda silvaner Jessica are some one of the other ones that is responsible for
doing it. No, Diane says yeah,

© Russ 24:59

yeah. Just how many how many brands are you managing right now? proximately?

®) Staci Gray 25:06

over 12

© Russ 25:08

Okay, so for a syndicator, you might be managing a dozen projects that’s not unthinkable. You know, when when
Robert and his original partner first got started, by the time | got involved because they were drowning operationally
and | was the closest thing to an operational solution they had, they had over 54 they had over 50 different projects
they were trying to keep track of, and it was just a zoo. So, you know, as we started growing the real estate guys, and
thinking about these different things that we want to do, especially taking on the syndication mentoring club, you
know, it just made sense for us to bring in somebody to help organize it and Stacy's that Stacy's skill set. And then
and then you know, within the scope of that is just understanding that delivering on the promise that we made, when
we conceived the program, that we would have somebody operationally who would be running around identifying
what best practices are, and then coming back and making that information available. It was a, we were able to kind
of synergize if you will, and you know, have her help us at the same time that she built a business at the same time,
she helps all of you. And so you know, you're this is somebody who's not just talking about something, she used to do
work, but it’s something she's doing on a daily basis. And it's the same problem | mean, you know, she's she’s not
managing real estate investing project. She's managing, helping, you know, individual syndicators, and content
creators, like the real estate guys figure out how to run their businesses. But at the end of the day, she’s managing a
lot of different sub projects and sub teams, and trying to not lose her mind. And so she's really well qualified to talk
to you from the seat of experience, as far as how do you do all that.
JO

like a go to that secure where the investors can download the K ones, the, the 1099 interest, if they're, if they're on
debt, reports, just all that. So it's not just on on Dropbox. So | think it's those three primary problems.

Russ 12:51

Okay. So you know, again, | don't know why having it on Dropbox would be a problem, you get three different
components, you got the forward facing component, a professional website, that by itself is an easy problem to
solve. The second thing is on the back end, having processes and procedures to keep track of the documents and
organize them and do all the stuff that you have to do. To me, I’m not an operations guy, that's the harder problem
to solve. But someone like Stacey, who knows how to do the back end, probably by itself, fairly easy problem to solve,
and then giving people access to documents, where they can just go in log in and have access to it. If they have their
own Dropbox folder, and you put their documents in it. That's a pretty easy problem to solve. So where you make it
complicated is when you try to put them all together. And so | go back and ask myself, is that survival? Is that
mission critical? Is that important? Or is it interesting? Where would you rank it for you right now?

13:56

Interesting.

Russ 13:58

Yeah. Okay. And | would say the same thing. It may be very interesting, like borderline important, but probably still
very much in the interesting camp. So with that said, if somebody had it maybe higher up the priority ladder. Stacey,
you have anything you want to say just kind of on the nuts and bolts of trying to create integration because | know
you've had to deal with that problem in the past.

Staci Gray 14:23

actually don't think what you're trying to accomplish is that complicated. If you have in your you don't even
necessarily need to have an investor portal, but you have a website right now. You can put on your men top
navigation, a little thing that says login or investor login, and it could link to your Dropbox thing and that is password
protected, and then they have to put in a password and then just go directly to wherever it is brilliant. So Could be
super simple. And then that also gives you the freedom for when you do want to do it more robust, because there's a
short term thing of like, this is what I'm trying to accomplish to make it look more legit on my website, that short
term, but you also want to lay the foundation for there being longer term, then when you're ready to actually have a
real investment portal, you can just change the link on your navigation to link to that investor portal. And then they'll
put in their username and password, they can log in, you can have your quarterly reports, your monthly reports, your
distribution notices, your any communication on a property they can look at, they can look at available projects that

they could possibly buy into, like a real investment portal, then you can have all of that down the road.

Russ 15:48

That's big company stuff. And even though your acronym is big, you're not big yet. Right? So | think that, you know,
you gotta you gotta walk before you can run. And you know, and then once you know how to run, you got to train for
a long time before you can sprint. And then you got to probably be pretty good at that before you can juke and jive
(&) Staci Gray 03:22

from a business operations sales? Um, | think one. unmute Randy.

© Russ 03:36

| think it was him. It was,

(S) Staci Gray 03:38

yeah, um, one thing that | think | have found that a lot of syndicators have struggled with, that | started working with
are, they're trying to do everything at the beginning, instead of understanding that developing their operations is
also a process. So all of the infrastructure, everything that you need to do to have a scalable syndication business
doesn't have to happen on day one, it you do the minimum or the MVP, and you learn a lot you learn about what you
like doing what you don't like doing, you learn about what works in the marketplace, you discover a lot, and then you
layer on to it and your next iteration. So it’s a constant growth process, not you set it up at the very beginning. And
then that's how it is for the rest of time. And | think sometimes syndicators or anyone starting a business gets
overwhelmed with having to have everything done at the beginning and then they don't really make the progress
they need to do to actually get the business off the ground.

© Russ 04:42

Yeah, that's a great point. You know, if you go back to that analogy that we use of the tree | just love thinking of
businesses as trees because they're living organisms. You've got your root system, which is your mission, vision values,
you've got your trunk which is your which is your legal structure, your accounting structure, your Technology structure.
And then you've got your three major branches, onboarding, investors, onboarding deals and onboarding team
members. And then as it grows, if you look at the way if you you know, if ever looking at old tree and you cut it, you
can see to Stacey's point that it grew in layers, it layered out. And so it didn’t start out a big tree, it didn't grow a big
trunk with no branches, and then grow the branches, it everything kind of grew, the root system went deeper, the
trunk got thicker, the branches got longer, more shoots more outreaches, in the beginning, it was small. And so that
concept of MVP, figuring out where you are and what you have to do to get open for business where you can go out
and see an investor and have them send you money, which means you have to have a deal, you have to have your
offering documents, you have to have your bank account, you have to have your legal structure, you have to have
you know, you have to have enough information to be able to go out there and do business, and that's your MVP. If
you're just getting started, that's job one, get to your MVP. So you can take a breath, you're giving birth to a business.
And the first and most important thing if you've ever been in a delivery room, and I've been in several, the first most
important thing when that baby is born, is get it breathing, you got to get it breathing and breathing in business is
oxygen is income. If you can't getting feedback from somebody, you're gonna you're going to go out of business. And
so the temptation is because a lot of us start as part timers, is we feed our business from whatever else we're doing.
And we use that that subsidy to procrastinate on doing what we need to be doing. And then we hide behind
organizing, to prevent ourselves from going out and selling. And so concentrate on the MVP. So hopefully that's
useful. Now, since this isn't about a monologue that was just kind of a chumming the water. What questions do we
have out there? Who has a question that has one? Sep has a question and he put it in the chat because Sep knows
how to play this game? Okay, so go ahead step.

A 07:13

So it’s a two or three part question. I'm a little lost in the weeds. basically taking a website and incorporating an
Jo

don't think that that is going to happen in the near future. But | do think that, you know, you could certainly quote,
the things that we write, you could refer to it linked to it, if that makes sense, like | do with many different sources. But
it's it's it’s speaking to you that’s why you're excited about it, what you have to do, | think, is take what what what
you're getting out of it, like we do in the book studies, what is the author saying? And then once you kind of have
that, it’s like, wnat does that mean to me? And how can | use this information that that becomes your thesis. And so
your thesis is whatever conclusion you drew, and then your supporting statements are the things that | said, or the
things that Jim Rickards said, or the things that Peter Schiff said, or whoever it is, or whatever combination of people,
and and seven, I've been talking about this a lot in his business plan writing, but really in all of your writing, basically,
you you, you make a thesis statement, you say this is, this is the conclusion in advance, this is what | believe. And
then you're going to offer three arguments, at least, your second best, first, your weakest in the middle, and then your
most compelling last. And that's kind of how you write a persuasive paper, whether it’s an email, a presentation, an
oral presentation, a verbal presentation, whatever it is, you're writing or communicating, you start out with that thesis
statement and supporting statements. So | would say Take, take what you're drawing from whatever it is, you're
reading from any source me included, and say, Okay, this is my thesis statement, this is what | get out of this, this
makes sense to me. And then and then write that and then support it with three things. And if you can do that orally,
then you can just record it and give it to a writer and let them write it. And then it becomes a unique piece. And you
can say, Hey, | read this article the other day, and this is what the author said. And | think it's brilliant because of
these reasons. And here's how we're going to implement it to help our investors and now you have a piece that's
unique, that’s yours. Because the problem is is you know, if if everybody starts just if we had a service where I'm
writing a newsletter, somebody is writing a newsletter, everybody is just white labeling it, the odds are at some point,
people are going to see that it’s going to get posted up and it’s going to appear to be written by two or three
different authors. And it’s not going to be original content. That's why places like YouTube and even on search
engines on the on the internet, is that when you see that kind of replication of of content, everybody that isn't the
original poster is discounted is not indexed to because they're considered to be copycats. And | think that if you're
going to position yourself as a thought leader, it doesn't take a lot of effort to put a little bit of a unique spin on it.
Because the effort that you take to figure out why you would even want to share it is enough to simply say, | want to
share it and here it is. Now it becomes unique. So for example, a YouTube video that | like | can go ahead and take
and then create an intro to it, assuming that | have permission to use the content. And then it becomes a unique
video as far as YouTube is concerned, because I've added something to it to make it mine. Alright. | don't know, see,
see if you have anything on that or anybody? Because that's kind of a not necessarily an operational topic, but it
kind of is, how do | become more efficient in getting marketing messages out there? Anybody have anything they
want to comment on any of that? yet? Greg, you're waving your hand? You gotta unmute. Yeah,

Craig Kamman 40:37

there you go. Yeah. Just a follow up. question on that. What platform? Were you looking at doing that thought leader
on? | mean, were you going to do a blog social media, like YouTube or newsletters?

40:52

Well, there's specifically in relationship to the question, and the white labeling. | was thinking of emails to my list of

what he meant emails to his list. So that's this specific question.

Russ 41:13

Yeah, | mean, well, you could forward to them, you could just simply forward and say, Hey, here's a newsletter |
subscribe to and this is really interesting. And here's all the reasons why. Take a look at G. Edward Griffin, need to

know news. So | think he | think you can probably get it at reality zone.com. But if you're on his list, that's that's all he
JO

JO

does. He has a, an email that comes out that has four or five headlines with a link and then when you link it goes to
his landing page. And it's got, you know, a paragraph or two of his comments, and then the original article. And so
it's it’s,

41:50

what's it | haven't seen that? | haven't seen that, but I'm in a car soon as like, | get where I'm going, I'm gonna lift it up

and sign up.

Russ 41:58

Yeah. So that that’s a way to do it. But | think it's a great thing. | mean, the idea is, | think going back to what we
talked about at the top with Stacey, is that a lot of people try to take on too much too soon. And well, it’s important
to have a regular heartbeat of communication. It doesn't have to be purely original content, | can tell you, that

newsletter that | put out every week takes me probably 10 hours from the time | sit down. Oh,

42:26

| know that. | know. I'm sure of it. Yeah.

Russ 42:29

And so yeah, and we didn't start doing until we had a pretty big list. And even sometimes | question whether or not |
want to be doing it, but | get more out of it than just, you know, what we're sharing people do share it with others. We
do have a pretty loyal readership, which | enjoy, but it forces me to sit down and think. And it makes everything that |
do, you know, on the radio, or when I'm in conversations, a lot of that thought leadership comes from studying,
because if you're going to position yourself as a thought leader, and you're going to do it right, then at some point,
you're going to get invited to soeak somewhere. And there's nothing worse than when you have been parroting
somebody else or repurposing somebody else. And now you're the one with the microphone or camera in your face
or you're on stage and you're doing active q&a. And you haven't really processed and connected the dots. So the
highest form of thought leadership isn't just putting the content out there. But it’s getting into an engagement with a
conversation or putting yourself in a situation where you're being presented to new audiences. And so | do think that
if you if you want to establish yourself as a thought leader, | think it's important that you really be a thought leader.
And the first step to that is to digest what other people are saying, and then regurgitate it. So when Stacey was little,
when she was being homeschooled, we taught a principle called for Ra. And it was read research, a relate and write |
think, or something like that. You remember what the four R's were stays.

Staci Gray 44:12

No, and | could never say my hours either.

Russ 44:16

Yeah, so but but the point is, | do this all the time. You know, | read something that looks interesting. | research it to
make sure that the premises that the person made in their persuasion are valid, because sometimes people will if
December 2020 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on
Business Operati...

@ Mon, 10/113:50PM @ 59:42

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

business, people, question, investor, syndication, writing, calendar, create, synergy, deal, operations, problem, stacy, real estate,

read, stacey, content, put, investing, mvp

SPEAKERS

Russ, Craig Kamman, Ben, Staci Gray

Russ 00:17

Hey syndication mentoring club, it’s Russ here with Stacey. And we're doing ask the mentors business operations. And
so we got some folks in the house as you can see, and we don't have any pre submitted questions that I’m aware of.
So we're going to kind of open it up just to q&a. But before we do that, | thought that it might be nice to hear from
you stays because you've been working with some syndicators, helping them organize their businesses to scale. And
it's funny because I'm in the middle of writing a promo. And the promo I'm kind of keying on the word synergy. And if
you know, the technical definition of synergy is where the sum of the parts are greater, or that the product is greater
than the sum of the parts. Meaning that when when the different pieces come together, they're more powerful. And
so | make the argument in real estate that, you know, you get the syndication between the debt, the cash flow, the
tax breaks, and then that creates a more powerful wealth building vehicle than just the real estate and the rent by
itself, right? When you get synergy. With the debt and the tax breaks, you combine real estate investing with the
wealth, building power of business, and syndication becomes very synergistic. businesses in general are synergy
between internal external teams, processes, infrastructure, and when you put all those components together and
organize them properly, they create something more powerful than the sum of all the individual parts. So in a lot of
ways, we're like chefs, we're, like, engineers, you know, we take components and we put them together. And of course,
that's the art and science of being in business, because from an investing perspective, it's like portfolio management.
So on a deal, you're you're working the different components of the deal in a portfolio, you're putting different deals
different assets together. You know, like with our precious equity series, we're combining the concept of real estate
and leverage and tax breaks with qualified retirement plans, precious metals, more tax breaks. And then on the other
side, instead of going into debt is the borrower investing. And so that's kind of portfolio synergy. In business. Our goal
is to create synergy. And the way we do that is, is one of the ways we do it is through our operations. Obviously, we
do it through strategic alliances and synergies that we have with other people co Ops, the syndication mentoring
club is all about synergy. synergy is one of my favorite words. Because it’s at this, it’s at the base, the foundation of
all business strategy of all strategy, right? The whole purpose of strategy is to create synergy. And if you're not
consciously doing that, then you may miss a lot of opportunities to create more powerful structure. So since | had
that top of my mind, | thought that that would be a nice little rant where you guys think about your questions. And so
with that space, | just like to toss it to you and see if you've had any Aha, epiphany is anything you've seen, that you
think anybody would, would benefit from, give them a little bit more time to think of their questions
Wy Russ 56:39

Okay. All right. So we are got a couple of minutes left. Any other questions? operational. We kind of went all over the
place this time, but it was good. | hope. Okay, so, Stace, any closing comments from an operational perspective?

6) Staci Gray 57:00

JO

Nope. | think just again, what | said probably at the beginning, because | think we want full circle, just really focusing
on the things that you need to do to get you to that next level, and then reevaluate it to get to the next level. But the
way you build a business?

Russ 57:18

Yeah, | would say, you know, you have to get your MVP, you have to figure out that fundamental system of taking
money and getting it distributed, where it needs to go. And then reinforcing. So when you have, you know, an injury, |
use a three step process. First thing is, is something went wrong, okay, triage, whatever is going wrong, I've got to
stop the bleeding, have just draw a line in the sand to make sure that we don't continue to have more of a problem.
If if the situation is critical. If it's survival, then I've got to stabilize the thing. So once that's done, then the next thing |
got to do is | gotta | gotta, | gotta build the proper structure, the proper procedures, whatever it is to make sure that
it doesn't happen again, | call that rehab. And once I've got that basic structure in place, then strength and
conditioning is about putting muscle on it is reinforcing it, making sure that you fine tune it, that you automate that
you put in cross training, good documentation. And now Now you've you've got solid strength in that core process.
And you can build on that to scale. And that's really, you know, what Stacy, is, is excellent at So, again, don't try to be
strong before you are surviving. And don't try to really, you know, be strong until you've built that core structure. And |
think one of the most important things Stacy said in the beginning is it's it's iterative, quality, processes, structure, it
layers. And it’s a process of continual feedback, and improvement, and so you even have to have a process for that.
Okay, so | think we'll call that a wrap. appreciate everybody being on the call. Again, it’s great. We can always go
freeform but if you do have questions ahead of time, and you get those to us, then you know, we come in maybe a
little bit more prepared. We will always handle the pre submitted questions first, and then we'll deal with whatever
comes up, but appreciate everybody's involvement in contribution. And look forward to doing it again real soon.
Thanks. Thanks, guys.

59:31
Thank you, bye bye.
© Russ 19:26

Right and then the other part of that is you can create, you know redundancy. So you can set a reminder to you
know, to double check that it's done and give that to somebody who wasn't assigned to the original task. You know,
so there's things you can do in in cross training and double checking in making sure that you close the loop and
don't just assume that because somebody was assigned the task that they actually did it again, I'm way over my

head now because this is not my mind by any stretch, but | get the concepts

© Ben 20:00

Well, and | think the underlying thing that | was really curious about is I'm working on getting those systems better.
But is there really any inherent risk, if we screw it up with them going inactive?

© Russ 20:17

Well, that you kind of illegal but not really, | mean, the basic thing is they'll they'll go into a default array. | don't know
what the status is, but they go into their their, their overdue, and then they sit there for a little while and you can
redeem them. And the longer you wait, the more expensive and if you don't get it done after quite a while, depending
on the jurisdiction, then they revoke, they just completely revoke and dissolve. But that takes a long, long time. And if
you have a third party Resident Agent, they may be getting notified. If you're if you are your own Resident Agent,
then you're going to be getting notified. But you know, you don't want to be in that situation. You know, | think the
bigger lesson is not just specific to LLC, it's everything. Everything you need to do needs to be calendered and
assigned to somebody. And if you really want to do it, right, you have reminders and cross checks where somebody
else who's not the person who was assigned to make sure that it was done to make sure that it was done, right. So
you know, when you're small, these things are harder. That's why the whole concept in syndication is to get big, as
quick as you can. Because now you have people who are managing all of this stuff. And it's, it's easier because you
have economies of scale. The great news is in today's world, we have virtual assistants, which means you can hire
super organized people, and only pay them for the time you use them. And so you know, you may have somebody
whose job it is just to make sure that everything on the calendar actually happened and close the loop. So you set up
the master calendar, every time you need something done, you tell this person, hey, put it on master calendar, and
make sure it gets done. And you know, and then in the beginning, you might be spot checking it to make sure that it's
happening and that person is reliable. But then after a while, you know that person is doing that. And they're, you
know, you've told them who's responsible even if it's you. And they're they're bugging you, | have the team bug me for
my deliverables. And | tell them, you know, they have their permission to cc knows the term well to stand on my head,
if that's what it takes to get me to do what I'm supposed to do. And pester me because | like anybody else | get
distracted. And you know, sometimes | just can't keep up and then | know I'm over committed. And then you know,
it's not a matter of yelling at me. Even though some of that happens. It's more like, Hey, what do we do to free you
up? How do we get some stuff off your plate? Right? But the more proactive you can be the happier you're going to
be Stace. Any, any more on that?

@) Staci Gray 22:51

Well, there was a follow up question from Craig in the chat. I'm asking what calendar Do you use and everything
goes on there? How do you avoid getting beer buried in the noise. Um, so we actually don't just have one master

calendar. That's what he’s calling it, we use
you read an article, you'll see somebody established something as a premise and a foundation of everything else
they're going to do. | just got done reading. Judy Calkins, or Stephanie Kelton book, the deficit myth, and it's all
about modern monetary theory. | on face value, | think modern monetary theory is baloney. But You know, as Robert
Kiyosaki is taught me, you know, you want to, you want to hear both sides of it. So I, | read it. And she builds her
whole case that you can print, a currency issuer can print unlimited amounts of money, as long as it can borrow
unlimited amounts of money, as long as they are a pain in the currency that they have the ability to issue. That
makes sense. And so that the indication is, is that if you've printed too much, you'll have inflation, in her whole case is
based on that? Well, | can tell she’s never run a business because business people are constantly trying to drive costs
down. And if they're going to print so much money, that they're going to suck up all those increased productivity
gains, they are stealing. That increased productivity, that savings from the producer, because you you increase your
bottom line by raising your top line and or lowering your bottom line. And businesses are always trying to lower their
bottom line, if they do it successfully enough, they share some of that with their customers, giving them a lower price
or a better product. And that's what true entrepreneurship and innovation and productivity does it drives costs down
and makes makes more product available to more people mmt. And the concept that we have to force 2% inflation
steals all of those productivity gains and a little bit more. And then they say, well, there's no impact of printing
money. Right? Well, my point of all that is that | heard somebody make the argument for mmt. And then there was a
premise that they set on it. And then | had to go back and you test the premise. you research the premise. And you
relate the premise. Does the premise Make sense? In my case, | disagree. | would debate her on that. Right now, even
though she's like, you know, way more educated, way smarter than me. But | think | think | can hold my own because
| think I've thought it through. Anyway, so | digress a little bit. But the point is, is if you want to be a thought leader, |
think it's important to be a thought leader. avoid the temptation just to go buy something, or have somebody write
something for you. Because if you're going to establish yourself as a thought leader, the primary reason to do it, is to
either make better investing decisions, through that thought leadership, or to have public relations and better
marketing, in which case, in both cases, you are going to be accountable to knowing what you're thinking. And if you
haven't done the hard work of creating whatever it is you're creating, you may not have the dots, completely
connected. And it's going to show up in bad investment decisions. Or getting stumped when you're out there trying
to defend a position you haven't really created on your own. So | think I'll just leave it at that. And then let's see. So

we've got stuff going back and forth. Craig, you have is that follow up? Thoughts? You have another question?

@ Craig Kamman 48:07

It was along the same lines, I'm more stumped on the avatar, who we're really targeting. So if we're if we're going into
digital media, let's say we do a blog, and we, you know, we take someone else’s content, and we put, you know,
context to it. And then we link that out to newsletters. Who are we really targeting? | mean, to me, it seems much
more personal. | don't know how many investors, most people are going to be working with me, am | going to have a

dozen? Or am | going to have hundreds?

© Russ 48:40

Well, so | think the question of avatar, this is more a marketing question. But you know, at the end of the day, you
have to go talk to people, and that's how you learn. Or That's why, you know, that's,

© Craig Kamman 48:53

| guess that’s why I'm a little stumped on the the mass media marketing for this, this seems much more personal
relationship.
@) Staci Gray 26:53

JO

And to your point, like, even though you have your first layer of brands, but within those brands, a lot of the clients
that we have are multi passionate, so they have multiple brands. So then they have brands within brands. So keeping
that all straight, and you may have a project that has been a sub project, and keeping track of it all with the
information that you need to see, but then also giving the team the detail that they need, but as a decision maker,
not having all the details. So you can actually make strategic decisions, is it's a balance. And | for us, the business
categories has changed everything because then we can we clump it into a business category versus Oh,
everything's like this is a task for a spreadsheet, or this is a task for CRM, or this is a task for websites, if you break it
out like that it's more challenging because then it’s based on division versus actual, are the operations for a specific

project. | don't know. Does that make sense?

Ben 28:00
Yeah, absolutely. That's alright, so

Russ 28:02

that was Ben and Craig. Okay. So john, | believe that's john, Real Property Management has a question.

28:11

Yeah, that's john, how are you? Good. Good, good. Good. Can | say something with respect to that LLC issue? Sure.
Would that be appropriate? If so, | don't think that, you know, if it lapses and goes inactive for three weeks, and you
catch it, you pay it, you're going to have any issue, the issue is going to come up. If something occurs during that
lapse, when you needed that liability protection. And that event occurred and you were not an LLC, then the

attorney on the other side, may well be able to pierce that. And now if it all goes away.

Russ 29:01

So john, you're | think you're sweating. You're switching cells right now. So I'm gonna let you kind of get into the next
cell because you sound like you're in the bottom of a well, but | think you're making a good point. And | didn't
consider that when | answered the question from an administrative perspective. But the entire concept of having a
limited liability company, which is a liability shield, is that it's in good standing, that it exists, that it is able to do
business, the minute it falls out of Good Standing, then that shield is not there. And if something happens during that
period of time, whoever is being protected by that shield is theoretically vulnerable. Now, john may know this answer
better than me because he's a trained in law, not a practicing attorney, but trained in law. But you know, that's one
thing when that happens on your management company and you're the one exposed but If you have limited
members in a deal, maybe you've bought an apartment building or you're doing some project and that entity lapses,
and then all of a sudden you find yourself exposing your investors that that could really be a big problem. So | think
the bottom bottom line is just stay on top of your entities keep everything in good order. It goes along with the lines
of good bookkeeping, | can tell you, when we have a prospective provider approach, the real estate guys, part of our
due diligence checklist before they even get into a conversation with us, is we check their corporate standing, and if
their corporate standing isn’t good, then we pass. So if they can't, if they can’t keep stay on top of something as

basic as that, we just decide that they're not somebody we want to do business with. And you know, as we move into
investor portal, that will be the first one incorporating CRM, and what conduits are needed to tie those together. | got
confused because | heard about apartment investor pro through the podcast, | believe, or, and | checked out on their
website, and I'm, I'm lost on how to connect the dots because they're their website. It's like their platform, it seems
like there's kinda like a fee based service where they, you pay the monthly fee, they will create the website, they'll
create the content, and then the link the website to an investor portal, | don't know if that's included with what they
have, or if that's a separate company. And then, you know, the portals that I've researched, they tend to be more
geared towards multifamily. So | guess the first question would be, do if we already have a website? Do we need an
apartment investor pro? Or can we go straight to the investor portal services and just incorporate that?

© Russ 08:29

Okay, well, I'll go first. And | know Stacy will have some stuff to say about it. First of all, do you need no you don't?
Right? | mean, there's people that have been out there, syndicating for a long, long time without an investor portal.
So the first question you have to ask yourself about any piece of infrastructure? Is it? Is it an Is it a must tap? You
absolutely have to have it is a nice to have. So | have four different levels of requirement. You know, number one is
survival. If | don't have it on my Can | do business? That's what you know, MVP is number one, right? So am | able to
do business? without it? Yes, then it’s not survival. The next thing you have to ask yourself is is it mission critical? In
other words, for me to deliver on my promise to my investors, and do what I'm saying I'm going to do and deliver for
my team deliver for my investors, and deliver for myself, my family? Do | have to have it? If the answer is no, then it's
not mission critical. Okay, then the third thing is, is it important? In other words, does it improved quality? Meaning
customer satisfaction, team satisfaction? Does it decrease cost? Or does it increase revenue that would make it
important? And then the last one is, is is it interesting? Is it something that I'd like to have it would be kind of cool,
right? And so if you if you evaluate everything you're doing most of you in the being the first thing everybody should
be focused on is whatever is survival, whatever is mission critical, that MVP, we talked about And then after that, the
next thing is really delivering on the mission isn't mission critical, get all your mission critical components in. And then
you can talk about what's important, but most of you in a startup mode are just going to be focused on mission
critical getting that mission critical stuff. And then once you've got that in, then you can start talking about
enhancing quality enhancing productivity now, or profitability. So getting getting back to kind of your question, there
are going to be people that have created out of the box prepackaged solutions. For a lot of standard ordinary
businesses, the more creative you are, the harder it's going to be to find something out of the box. So you know,

when we went to do the syndication, mentoring club platform, we looked around to see if we could find anything out
of the box. And we couldn't, because I'm a creative guy, and it needed to be a certain way to create the kind of
environment we wanted to create. So we cobbled it together. Now whether that was a good idea or not, you know,
that remains to be seen. And somewhere down the road with economies of scale, we'll be able to build kind of a
custom version of what we want. So to me, it was it was a mission critical component, because it was what we
needed to do to deliver on the promise. And then the next question is, is the next iteration to Stacey's word is going
to be to, it's going to be important to improve quality, you know, it could be better to improve profitability, it could be
easier to administer reduced costs. And supposedly, if it's better on the front end, we would be able to raise the price
which somewhere down the road, we're gonna raise the price of mentoring club, as the thing gets built out, at least
to the those of you who are not in it now, right? Everybody's grandfathered. So. So there's that. And then | think the
other thing is, when you're looking at any critical piece of infrastructure, not only should you ask where it fits on the
priority ladder, but you have to ask yourself is what problem Am | really trying to solve? | mean, what? And so I'm
going to ask you SAP? And then I'll let Stacy kind of chime in on answering your question. But | think it’s important for

everybody to understand starting with you, what problem are you trying to solve?

A 12:17

Having a more professional website, problem number one, that's the first problem we're trying to solve. Number two
is having having assistance with having more professional reports. And the third is having a an all on one resource,
