_)oO

36727

and there's more laws, if you're dealing with bills that are not accredited,

Robert 36:31

yes, accredited in general has to do with their financial wherewithal. So the the definition of accredited investor in
the US is $200,000 of income for the last two years with a reasonable expectancy to make it this year. And that's a
tough one right now, in COVID. | know a lot of folks who made $200,000 or more in the last two years who ain't
making it this year, and | just met a guy yesterday, he’s having his best year ever. It's like, cool. So it's harder than
than ever. Now that 200,000 is for a single, a couple that's married $300,000. So between them or just one, but
$300,000, last year, $300,000, this year, expect 3000 or more next year, or a million dollars, net worth not counting
your personal residence. So other things, and then again, the premise of that is just if someone's got that much
money, they should be able to make a good decision. | don't know if | agree with that. Having met a lot of those
people, but that’s, that’s the rules. That's what we follow. And, you know, you just make a decision based on the ease
of it for you, and just who the kind of people want to do business with a lot of people just would rather work with
that. Some of you know, Buck Joffrey, he was, you know, part of his big part of our faculty in the syndication event,
there’s an inner circle member, he is very, very clear that he only wants to deal with talk and no accredited investors.
Like he’s just a high income guy has a lot of businesses and that's who he gravitates towards, he socially, he doesn't
have a lot to say to someone starting out, that makes $25,000 a year. He's not arrogant. He’s a great guy, but he’s
just very clear on who he's talking to, that's different than someone who's hard is about helping people, you know,
navigate real estate and becoming successful. So you just have to decide for yourself who you're after. But that’s part
of how | language is going to be | can make some assumptions. If it's accredited investor, you probably know that if
you are doing a 506 C, and you have accredited investors, you don't even need a full private placement
memorandum might be a good idea to have one. But technically you don't need one. So if you have a 506 B, are you
taking non accredited 's and for sure, you've got to have all the documentation. So so to me, this is a great exercise,
because it's something we're all going to go through when we see a deal, we find a deal. Now take the deal, and
translate that into what's it going to look like as an offering when | show this to my potential investors. So we do a lot
of ground up construction. That's probably the primary type of syndications that I've done is when there's
development involved, and I'm pretty used to no cash flow for a couple of years. Like I'm pretty use | know how to
explain that. | know that | couch that. So and it shows up in the way that | pitched the deal to people that they're not
in it for the return tomorrow. Now some people are some people want cash flow, they want to take a big pile of
money and turn it into a predictable, predictable income stream. There are going to be great, you know, candidates
for buying a B class apartment that’s already up and running and just going to do some tweaks and get the get the
rents up over time. So it’s back to Is it a good offer? Would anybody invest in this? The answer is almost always, yes.
Someone will invest in it. And this case, | think the fundamental question for you, Craig, and for everybody who's
thinking about you know, a particular deal is do | know people do | have people are my investors interested in this?
And you can | mean, if you have a list, and you're trying out something new and you don't know nothing like a quick
little poll, hey, I'm working on a deal right now, first of all, that's a touch point. That's good. You're telling them, Hey,
you're in the business and things are moving. And with everything that's happening, | found this deal. Here's my
question, hypothetically use the hypothetical from the sales training. If | were able to deliver a deal that did a, b, and
c, is there any reason you wouldn't want to take a look? So if you're not getting the sales training, one of the premises
of Russell's sales training is that people want to say no, when they're in a sales situation, they don’t want to say yes,
they want to say no human nature. So the way | just worded it there, when they say no, it's really a yes. Is there any
reason you wouldn't want to take a look? No, there’s not any reason | wouldn't want to take a look. So | would want
to take a look. But you don't say would you want to take a look too salesy? Is there any reason you wouldn't want to
look? No. So nosy. Yes. Anyway, that doesn't mean you don't want to come to the sales training. It's awesome. And
it's two days, and it's a lot of role playing. And it's got to get ingrained before you can really use it well. But the core

question is, do | have people who would be interested in this? And you can pull them you can ask them? And then if
talking about when someone's an equity investor betting on the column of how the deal is going to do at the end of
the day, you got to give them some guidance, you can't say, Well, we'll see. No one’s gonna invest in that. But you're
going to target a return range based on what the steel is. And then you know, some of the talking points about new
construction have to do with lower maintenance cost. In some areas, less insurance, it's gonna cost you less than
insurance premium than a 40 year old building. The whole idea of being more attractive to tenants, longer term
tenants in there some places you can go to research this but all things being equal, a brand new property tends to
have a longer occupancy at the beginning, especially than a older property. So there's a lot of less tangible things
that make sense for this deal that kind of offset that. No money for a couple years. Keep in mind, people who invest
like in their IRA, they don't need cash flow at all. If you have someone putting 100 grand in from their IRA, whether it
has cash flow in the first year or not means absolutely nothing to them long term. Now if they put money out of their
bank account in. And they want to get another person to admit they pulled money out of their bank account and
they need that monthly income. They just got a severance package to retire. And now they want to turn that into
cash flow every month. Well, that's a whole different story. So that’s, that's part of learning how to language is based
on who your prospective client is. All right, so I've set a lot. Is there anybody else before we're done here? We're not
going to get into any more topics today. So that's the advantage of coming with your own own topic, Craig resume,
we'll send us any input on this anything they'd like to throw in there? | know. We have some season, folks. | see Randy
raisin is in.

55:40

JO

Yeah, the only thing is, it sounds like a great opportunity. But and I've we've played in the tertiary market space quite
a bit. And

© Robert 55:48

you live in kind of a tertiary market. Yeah, way to

50:01

JO

Yeah. And in this just to keep in mind, just food for thought management is going to be your number one person on
your team it's going to make or break so Tegan in on what Robert said, | think before | would go any further | would
really make sure | have a good comfortable feeling that these people are competent, able to do it. | | can tell you
horror stories about our first management companies and some of these markets and we had to kiss a lot of frogs.
So if you don't have a lot of frogs to kiss, you could be dead in the water before you ever get started. So | think that's
the only thing | want to say is make sure on your pre due diligence. You You know, they're pulling out Excel sheets and
you know not a very sufficient lot high level of sophistication in that that market in terms of management that could
be a real problem down the road. So that

@ Robert 56:39

is a world class nugget. Ladies and gentlemen. Randy is a decades and decades investor broker syndicators so that's
that's button knowledge right there. You know, big markets, you're going to have lots of competitive third party
property management companies to choose from sometimes they're more expensive, but you know, they're they're
arguably worth it. smaller markets, it's just tough. There’s a couple markets we're in we have a deal right now may
show up as a pretty cool turnkey syndication opportunity. But this is the linchpin finding management because it all
hinges on management, there is no return without great management. So excellent point. Anybody else? I'm not
looking at you all. I'm looking at speaker mode. So just fire away if anybody has another comment or something
A, 57:24

they want to say something you mentioned, Sam freshmen. Who's sitting right here.

© Robert 57:31

There you go. Principles of real estate syndication,

A 57:33

I'm looking at him, and I'm looking at you. And I'm looking at him. And I'm looking at you. And I'm thinking just be
the low screen line where | can't see, do you have a pile of cash sitting in front of Yes.

© Robert 57:48

Can you not say | got a huge pile of cash.

A 57:53

Maybe | don't know,

® Robert 57:54

the only thing I'm missing is the tie. | just don’t have the time that | bought

57:59

JO

this because God knows when you mentioned it a year ago or something on the on the podcast on the radio show

Yep. If you guys don't have this book, it’s technical. It's not like a breezy read about investing. But this is this is the
real deal right here.

© Robert 58:19

It is truly the textbook on real estate syndication, most of the junior colleges have that on their approved textbook

list for syndication. It reads like a dry textbook, but Sam was a sharp guy. He's a real estate broker, and an attorney

for more than 50 years, each of those things like 100 years combined. So love to have fun with Sam, but the old joke,

58:45

less cheesy cover.
© Robert 17:58

Yeah, that's a great question. So back to your avatar, variety of reasons people invest, as we've learned from Dave's
book, and others, many people their primary emphasis or attraction to real estate is the tax benefits. So we say don't
let the tax tail wag the investment dog don't invest in something just because tax benefits but one people do.
Secondly, in this business, we often have some pretty cool tax advantages that can be passed along. So you want to
get with a tax professional to help you just understand kind of a generic, what am | look like? Keep in mind two
things about tax. First tax law does and will change. And secondly, everybody's ability to use whatever tax
deductions you pass on through your entity structure is going to vary. Some people are going to be all about it, some
people aren't going to care about it. Some people, it's great, they'll be happy with it. And a fair amount of education
ends up falling on our shoulders at syndicators, especially if we have folks that, you know, were wrestling from Wall
Street, they've only invested in mutual funds and those kinds of things, and all of a sudden, now they're exposed to
real estate. So there can be an educational point of view, you want to just be very careful to not cross the line of
being a tax advisor, just like I'm doing right now. You can often know a lot about the situation, but you don't want to
come off. You don't want to come off to the tears later their. Their their memory says you told them all about the
taxes. So you always want to say now I'm not a tax professional. I'm not a CPA, my understanding is x. And | got that
from my CPA who's this person. But you're gonna want to check with your tax professional because everybody's
situation is different with regard to taxes, but it can be a compelling reason that can add a couple of points return to
this equation. So you want to start with what you think your performance metrics look like and sounds like you've
already done that. And from there probably, you know The other sounding board. So you talked about, was there a
way to get anybody to take a look at that. And there's a great way we'll talk about before we're done. Peer review. So
we should all be looking at each other's stuff. second set of eyes is one of our rules, we still somehow gets things to
go with typos, and it just kills me. But our practice is generally at least two people have read it hopefully more,
because you get too close to it. You know, Russ writes a killer newsletter, and there's two typos. And it just takes a
little bit of credibility down. So we really like to make sure somebody goes through and reads it. And I'm, I'm not
always that person. But when | am that person, and | send it back, and | say it looks great, you know, this reference is
wrong and change these two words, like, | looked at that 10 times, exactly. It’s like that with performance, we look at
him so much, that it’s really good to get a third party to come over look over our shoulder and say, What would you
think so, but once you've gotten to a point where you feel it's pretty solid, then if you've got a relationship with a tax
professional, great, if not, then you start a relationship with a tax professional, and you bring a lot to the table,
because many of the people that are gonna invest in your deals, I'm talking to everybody are going to need tax help.
And so when you develop a relationship with somebody that you can also point to, that can be helpful. Now, there's
conflict of interest, there's all those things, and they may not be at the same level as you are in terms of your needs.
But to get a tax person to give you just an overview is great. And then we know we're big fans of education, if you
could, and they were and they were interested in available, you could turn that into a webinar about it. That's just
hey, it's you and your CPA going over the tax side of this particular deal. So

© Craig Kamman_ 21:43

I've got a company that does accelerated depreciation, and they've offered to do a study on this, it's gonna cost
close to 10,000. But it would be in their words, and basically, what can be accelerated on timeframe for the duction.

And kind of an estimate for investors is that worth doing? That's a big number up front

© Robert 22:03

usually is worth doing. And the number is going to vary. And that's not out of whack for cost segregation, or thank
you fast, casual, you know, there's there's the two parts of it. Normally, if you're going to have a new construction

project, you want to get in, have them involved from the beginning, because they share information, the general
all good in a syndication you might decide not to do that | could decide if | was paying cash for a property I'm | can't
get an appraisal done. Because I've been studying the market. | know the value, | know what I'm getting wouldn't
hurt for you know, a few $100,000 to do it, but | wouldn't have to well, the minute you raise money, then you really
should you really should have a third neutral party, that those kinds of activities, you know, so. Okay. What else?

© Craig Kamman 27:52

That's open to everyone, right?

@ Robert 27:54

Yeah. So if anybody else has a comment question wants to make us a statement or give Craig an ID on any of this, or
you've done something similar? Jump in?

@ Craig Kamman 28:06

Um, | have this, | guess a general question about the deal and deals like this with with the return being a cash flow
stream down the line? What are generally best practices around return on capital versus return on principal and
marketing that?

© Robert 28:26

Good question. So when this gets back to who your avatar is, you're going to present your deal and its financial
performance. In a way that’s fairly simple to understand, not because your clients are dumb, but just because simple
is good, the more convoluted and and confusing it is, the harder it is to get people to die, to buy. And I've seen these
just incredible, brilliant waterfalls that people are so proud of. And then every investor gets so confused that we know
a confused mind doesn't act. So they go, well. | just gonna, I'm gonna sit it out. And | just, | can't get my mind around
it. You don't want that. So you do want to have, you're going to develop this is kind of your format. So if you were to
look at our PMS, from all the years, you'd see a continuity, | would hope and evolution, but a continuity. So | tend to
use a lot of pictures. | tend to go landscape instead of horizontal. It’s just things | generally do that once people are
in my world they they look at it, they know that it’s consistent. And consistency is great as a syndicator people are
trusting you with money and sometimes a lot of money. And so you being even keeled and consistent. That's all
that's all great. So what you want to do is develop what your languaging is around that. For instance, you hear
people talk about IRR, internal rate of return. Many of you understand that if you don't it’s take into account all the
different ways that you can make money into In a property, but it's a confusing term internal rate of return. When |
was teaching college appraisal, it was right there in our textbook and we talked about it and discounting future cash
flows and things that were were confusing to most people. And at a high level, you may need to know some of that.
But russon, | call a total return, total return, meaning everything you're going to make from cash flow, tax benefits,
amortization appreciation, everything's going to make total return looks like this. To us. That's just simpler. But that's
our vernacular. And it'll be the same thing for you. So if you know, if you have clients, like Dave's books that are
primarily driven by tax, they have businesses and they're paying a lot of tax, they don't have a lot of deductions. Well,
lo and behold, real estate could be a thing that could help them out even passive investing in a syndication, they're
making money, but they're paying too much in tax, right, that’s an avatar, then you want to make sure that you're
languaging that in such a way that they can relate to it not as a real estate investor as a person who has a tax
problem, or the return how I'm going to couch return, because this is this is something people often get confused of
the whole thing about capital accounts, which is the money that is the investors money and how you account for it in
your deal. And then when you return money, is that a return of their principal up to a certain point? Or are they
first five years. And an average means, you know, accounts, the two years that there's nothing and the one year
there's a little and then the two years that it's that it's doing well. And then from then on, it's probably going to
perform better. Lots of things can happen in that marketplace is you know, the dollar devalues rents go up, your cost
to do goes down, your loans get paid off, | mean, all those things trend in the right direction. So for me something
that's brand new, that stable like this, a station when you get investment to use your words, is something people will
find favor in. So who is that investor, that's an investor who doesn't like a lot of risk. That's an investor who's more
about preservation of principle than big profits. That's an investor that wants to sit it and set it and forget it. They
want exposure to real estate, but they don't want to be bothered by real estate. So we tell the story of when we had
Sam freshmen as our keynote speaker at the secrets of successful syndication, and he said his target rate was 6%
return. And he had lots of people, lots of people who if Sam could reasonably expect to 6% from Kern, they would
line up and give him money. And he that was that was it if he ever brought something to them, and he learned this
the hard way. He brought him a deal. That was an Albuquerque | think He’s based in Los Angeles. And you can
imagine the returns aren't as high in California brought a deal and then had to perform an eight and a half percent
return. So at first he thought, oh, this, my investors are going to love this. But that’s not what happened is investors
thought, ooh, eight and a half who risky, right? It's all in perception and expectation. So | would say the fundamental
question Does this dog Hunt is way more about your target audience than it is the deal on its face from what you've
shared. | think the deal is gonna make sense. You also refer to it as a turtle. It’s just kind of a slow and steady thing. A
lot of people that's their investment philosophy. They aren't you know, making big bets. They aren't on the robot
coaster. They're in line for the merry go round. Back. They're in line for the kids merry go round. Right. It's predictable.
It keeps moving forward. No one's getting sick. Right. So | think fundamentally, it’s their, your decision to go ahead,
though, is also and everybody hear this based on where you're headed as a syndicator. Because every deal is going
to attract people into your world, and then from their referrals and so on. So you need to know who your avatar is in
this case. And the fundamental question, we were talking with Jared about this this morning, is that you have to
Battersby an avatar that you want to serve. So yeah, people would would find this deal attractive. And yeah, you
could probably it doesn't, it's not going to take a lot of money in terms of finding investors. But is that a group of
people you want to work with? Is that who you're targeting? Sometimes the kinds of people you find to do these
deals, want to roll right into the next deal? Is there enough of them? Can they replicate themselves, | don't think
you're going to find a lot of serious institutional money for tertiary markets. | mean, when | say institutional, that
could be anything from a hedge fund to read to an insurance company to you know, family offices, even. Generally,
they want to be in the in the more proven markets and the more proven product types, not that apartments are
improving, but 49 is kind of small. Yeah, you know, there's certain apartment teachers out there that teach 60, or 100
is kind of the minimum numbers all about economies of scale and efficiency. But it's true like that for the big boys as
well. Sometimes it's a niche, though a niche of 40 and 50 unit apartment buildings, if they perform, if you can get a
managed well, that can be a great little niche, because you don't have all that competition from, you know, Wall
Street and the big hedge fund companies and all that, that have tried to get in everybody's business, they got a
single family house business, they got an overnight vacation rental business, they're sniffing around and other
business to get in post COVID. Right now, they're probably going to stay out of this market, they're probably going to
stay out of this number of doors. Again, that's, that’s good and bad. If your exit strategy, they want to sell to some
bigger fish, maybe not. But if your strategy is we're going to get a pretty good chunk of this little market and maybe
some other little markets that are similar, you could build up on the retail side meaning to your in customer, you
could build up a nice little brand of, you know, fairly affordable, but pretty nice new units. So a lot to unpack there.
Let's just start with any color that you have Craig and anything we left on answered, and then we'll kind of open it up
to discussing those different things, the market, the financing the deal, and what ROI has to look like to prospective
investor.

Craig Kamman_ 17:42

Okay, one question | had is year one, the the number looks really poor, but then we get accelerated depreciation.
You know, that's attractive to investors, how do |, how do | put a number to that to present to them?
ee eee ee eee ens So es ee eee ems i a

you talked about, you know, everybody stakeholders, third party managers, lenders love top 20 M essays, because
there's just so much evidence of success infrastructure team, as soon as you get out to secondary and tertiary
markets, doesn't mean there's not opportunity anymore. Sometimes there's really cool opportunity, but it just you
have to look a little differently. So in this case, you know, not actually right here in the Metroplex of DFW, we ran into
a deal where not a city, but a government agency that owned some land was willing to give us the land for free if we
developed it. So that got our attention, right. Yeah. Turns out that when we did the math and looked at what they
wanted, and all that kind of stuff, and it came with some strings, it just didn't quite pencil for our audience, but it
might have for somebody and so | think there's lots of places | want to go here. And then we can kind of foster
discussion and let other people chime in as well, because we have some folks with some experience. But first of all,
quick show of virtual hands. How many of you did not know that the USDA did loans? Right, you think they just
stamp your your beef packages, right? We have an inner circle member that is doing an assumption of a USDA loan.
And the USDA, the Department of Agriculture is not in the primary business of making loans, but there are definitely
areas where they do and it’s great money to get it usually completely assumable and low money down. Now all that
is financial performance, that first we have to decide the very merit of the case so to speak. So if you're looking at a
smaller community, there just are more things to underwrite and risk but you don't have is the same durability of
income that you would in a larger market. Just because there's only so many primary job sources, you know,
understanding who the people by that live there, how tight it is to any one industry or any one economy. And many
times these types of loans are done in places that are pretty heavily agriculture. So it's not that you wouldn't do a
project in a small market. It's just understanding what a small mean, compared to what, what kind of variety of jobs
are there, it's apartments. So the people that are going to live there are going to be working in that community,
typically, unless it's a retirement apartment complex. So that's the fundamental first part is market analysis. What is
available now, you mentioned something, Craig, that's pretty common. And that is in smaller marketplaces, when a
developer builds something new, it usually does test the top end of the rental market, nobody builds a C Class
apartment, you might build something without frills, because that's where the market takes you, but it’s going to be
nice, it's going to be new, it’s going to be attractive to tenants. So you are likely to get, you know, kind of the top end,
which can be great. But I'm always a little leery when I'm at the top of the market, you know, rent range. Just

because if things go soft, if there’s challenges of the shutdowns, whatever it is, that can often be the first fly off, one
of the questions | always ask is, Is this the kind of market that a tenant would move over a $40 rent increase? So from
his Silicon Valley, where | am originally from, there’s nobody moving over a $40 rent increase, but in a lot of places,
yeah. As soon as you raise their rent, they're gone. They pack up, they're not even suitcases, they're plastic bags and
boxes, and out they go. So that the whole feasibility part of this and you mentioned here, before you go to look at,
you know, hiring a market study, which is a good idea in a market like this, you want to do as much of that
information as possible, we paid 35, grand, Randy knows his story for a market study that was very, very particular
and specific and took a lot of work. But before we did it, | was convinced that | knew more about this market than
anybody and that | would pretty much know the findings. And to a degree that was true. But the biggest part is it
was completely third party | in fact, offered to help the folks Hey, | know, you know, managers, | know. They're like,
No, no, we need to do this without your involvement at all. And that's what we were paying for it was a third party
decision. But before you ever hire a market study, bigger discussion point here, you always want to make sure you're
pretty sure you have an idea of what they're going to find. So you want to have talk to brokers and property
managers in the area. That's another thing. You know, big markets have lots of choices with third party competent
property management, small markets, not always, you know, there's two guys and they're cousins. So it's just, you
know, seeking that part of it. That's the market part, I'll cover some high notes that we can jump into any of it that is
important to you, Craig, certainly anybody else. The next part is brand new builds a brand new build developer, right?
Here's the reality of brand new build is it is always at market cost. Now, notwithstanding whatever incentives you
might get, the cost of construction is going to be the cost of construction at today's materials, and today’s labor rate,
and so on. If the market can sustain that that's good. There are times in the market where we can't get that but in
order to get new units on the ground, and if there's a demand forum, all things being equal, new construction is
great, the life of the property is going to be longer the desirability of tenants is going to be longer. But you also want
to make sure that you're understanding the motive of the the it was the builder or the developer that brought you
this deal.
the answer's no, sometimes you walk away from what could be a perfectly fine deal for somebody else, that isn’t a
deal for you, because it's just not your your wheelhouse. The other thing, | look at this deal, and I'm like, Okay, it’s not
a lot of money to raise 1.2. | mean, that’s not nothing. But that's not a lot. So then Zero Based Thinking is, | found
another deal that was just as interesting. That had a $2 million raise, it's twice as much work technically, on the raise,
but maybe not as much work as the amount of work on the deal itself, you're probably making twice as much. So
that's part of your as a syndicator approach of a deal, is it too small to consider, or for some of you is that too big to
consider, you don't want to bite off too much so that you're setting yourself up for failure. To me, this is a pretty cool
sized deal. $1.2 million raise, that’s doable, even to a relatively new syndicator if you build a list, and if you're talking
to your folks, and we haven't gotten too deep Craig into the story, but this deal feels like it has a story. Right because
of the relationship with the builder because of the nature of the small town because the USDA | mean, it’s not a sexy,
fabulous homerun Grand Slam story. But it's a story. And that's what people buy as a story. Mr. Mrs. Johnson, if you're
looking for a relatively safe, secure place to invest that’s outside of the other exposures to market you may be in right
now through your fill in the blank, whatever you found out about them stocks, bonds, high leverage deals, whatever it
is. This is a kind of boring base hit. Nothing wrong with that people love boring basics.

Craig Kamman 43:04

So you've spurred on three other questions. I'm gonna tie off of Ben's question real quick. So | braised additional
money, right as kind of a buffer. And in the spreadsheet, I've got it returning year one which inflates their return, it's
not really but that’s how | show it coming back. You know, | need a better way to explain it. If | don't need that money
that gets returned year one after we start filling up, right. Okay.

Robert 43:31

So that's, that's a great, you can absolutely do that. And many times the contingencies required in new construction
are all going to be wrung out of the deal in the first 12 to 18 months. So right going on, since the plan is to keep it for
a while, not that you don't have contingencies in miscellaneous, but if you've underwritten it correctly, you'll get that
through cash flow. So anytime you have an opportunity to return a chunk of investment capital, Kenny McElroy, so
typical B class apartment deal is the investors come in, they get a loan, they get the value up, they refinance it and
pay everybody if they can, all the money they put in, and now we're on infinite return. That really changes the nature
of the things. So many times projects are set up. So there is a milestone where you can give a chunk back, it's not a
return, it’s a return of capital. So that doesn't count as any taxable income, they're just getting their own money back.
And that can be very beneficial if they if each of you have asked for 100 grand, and you were able to return 30. Now,
they all have 70,000. But the returns they're making in the year for that you talked about are now on 70 instead of
100. So the return looks better. So you know there are ways to do that. But that's going to be deal specific if there's
an opportunity to be able to return some capital. Great. You know, we did a syndication a couple years back that
was the opposite of that. We raised less money than we probably needed. Long term, but the nature of the business
was increasing. So the plan was, listen, we're going to have cash flow for the first 18 months, but we're not going to
distribute it, we're going to keep it, and then we're going to expand the business with it. And at the end of the day,
three, four or five years in, now, our ROI is going to be insanely high, because we only capitalize it with this much in
the rescue amount of operations. So 1000 ways to skin a cat. Not sure why you want to, but there's 1000 ways. So
that's, you know, just figuring out and back to, you know, kind of my answer to Ben's thing, it’s just you, you're going
to develop your style, your languaging, the way you approach deals, the way your stuff looks, look and feel your
vernacular, all that stuff. And that’s what makes you you, that’s your, you know, Kyle Wilson would call it your secret
sauce, your unique selling proposition is part of the way that you approach this stuff. And so you want to develop it
for sure. But it's also going to evolve as you're doing deals. And as you're getting feedback from people so that we
get three questions that we got to one of them.
© Craig Kamman 46:05

Yeah, question number two is you talked about presenting this to the potential investors as hypothetical. | had a call
into Marie's | haven't spoken to him yet, just to kind of iron some things out. At what point? Am | safe to kind of have

that conversation? And how far do | go with it?

© Robert 46:22

Yeah. So you want to make sure you get legal counsels by him. But typically, if | if it's hypothetical, you can push it
pretty far. If your the issue comes on the security side that in what reverse does conditioning the market, or you
talking to someone for whom you don't have personal, strong relationship, and they're not accredited? And you don't
be talking about specific deal? So the hypothetical almost takes that away? You know, you don't want to say if it was
49 units, if it was brand new, if it was in this town, that's that’s not hypothetical hypothetical is, you know, I've been
looking at some really interesting ground up construction opportunities in some of the secondary and tertiary
markets, which might carry a little more risk, but at the same time, there's a there's a diversity there. So I'm spending
some time looking at this. And it looks like, you know, it’s going to produce a return that looks like x. If | pull the
trigger on this, was there any reason you would want to take a look at it? Or you can say, Does this sound like
something that would fit within your personal investment philosophy? And then they go, Yeah, | mean, that sounds
pretty good. Or well, no, I'm not interested, right? It’s just information, you don't get attached to what the outcome is.
But if you ask enough people, you start to get a sense, or people in our people, you see us do this, they dance all the
time, hey, if we were gonna do a high end program on asset protection and offshore entity strategy, you know who's
in it's gonna take three days, and it cost a few $1,000. And if there's no hands, that's seminars and showing up on our
catalogue. And if there's a lot of hands, well, that within a few years, we'll figure out how to do it. And almost
everything we've done is come from doing that. It's an inexpensive way to do it. But even more so it’s a touch point,
you're talking to your list is syndicators love adding people to their list and seem not like talking to them, you got to
be a heartbeat, you got to be talking to them with whatever you're doing, whether it's just newsletters or you know,
informational pieces that go out or curated content, or you're hosting a q&a webinar, or whatever it is, you know,
that's, that's a heartbeat. That's their touch. This is another touch. So | see, you know, David calf goes hanging out
here, instead of working, he does a good job of this, you know, David, I've seen you reached out to your list with, Hey,
| am thinking about this, or I'm working on this something and maybe not even be totally related to, you know, the
topic people have engaged in with. That's just another touch. Now you do run the risk when you do something that's
outside your wheelhouse that you wouldn't do something political or any of that. But if you you know, you run the risk
of people are going to unsubscribe, but if they're going to unsubscribe or something that does fit your personality
then better to get rid of them before they get a deal, in my opinion. So anyway, And question number three, or do we

need to do any more important question number two?

@ Craig Kamman 49:16

No, you covered it. Question number three, | kind of forgot what it was. | think it had to do with um, you talked about
you did the landscape setup. As far as like the I'm gonna call it the business plan, because that's what it's called on

the toolbox. I'm awesome. See? So is that something we can look at? Uh, no. Yeah,

© Robert 49:37

| there's there’s a couple of them and put them in the workbooks and things. I’m not sure we're on the platform. We
have a collection of those, but
December 2020 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Deals
and Deal S....

@ Tue, 10/26 3:31PM © 1:00:45

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

deal, people, return, market, investors, money, craig, year, great, syndication, business, question, syndicator, big, cash flow,

talking, invest, tax, languaging, part

SPEAKERS

Robert, Craig Kamman

Robert 00:17

All right syndication memory club. Here we go. It’s our as the mentors call for December 2020. deals and things
related to deals is our topic today. And so super excited about this format, you can submit your questions in advance,
like Craig has, and we're gonna go first with him. Or you can just ask questions when we get here, we're gonna have
about an hour today. So there's really no rules of engagement, other than we're here to talk about specific deals or,
you know, plans around a deal or how to find a deal. So it's steel specific. So with that, Craig submitted kind of a cool
scenario. And rather than read through it here, | think, why don't you just bring us up to speed Craig, and then we'll

we'll dive right in.

Craig Kamman_ 01:02

Okay, so it’s a builder I've known for years. He’s got a project all basically teed up, it's in a smaller town, 49 unit
apartment building. He’s done some real creative financing. He's using TIF financing with the city. So we're getting
about 1.1 million from the city plus the land is being kicked in almost for free. But 100,000 just for the land. And then
combined with there’s a new loan program out 40 year loan with the USDA Rural Development. So that's only 10%
down. It's targeted to towns smaller than 50,000 people to provide housing, to good industrial base, there's military
base nearby, a lot of manufacturing in not too far, about 35 miles from a bigger center. So it's riskier that it's a
smaller town, but we're getting a lot of government assistance to make it work. I've talked to the management
companies, rents are kind of on the higher end of that market, but it’s the newest housing in town. And I'm coming in
at it looks like the first two years, you know, you got your one construction, year to rent up, and then actually the
third year, we're still not the full occupancy. So really year four, we're at about 95% occupancy. What do investors
expect that year four, we should be right around that 14%? is kind of the projection, cash on cash return without
calculating anything else on, you know, tax incentive and, you know, capital, you know, principal reduction, what I'm

trying to put together a business plan, where do | begin?

Robert 02:53

Alright, so great synopsis in Craig's email, he described this as more of a stationwagon than a performance vehicle,

because it's kind of slow and steadv. And it's not a market that is bia. That brinas with it some of the challenaes that
Robert 58:50

Now, | think that's all stuff and it's solid stuff. That's easy. You know, you buy a textbook, because it’s the required
reading from the instructor stuff. You buy it based on the cover, but you should all have that book anyway. And then
if there's anybody that suffers from insomnia, | can strongly recommend Sam's book for that because it just gets into
the weeds of but but he's the real deal. He’s not some textbook writer. And | was teaching in college, | met a bunch of
textbook writers who don't really have a lot of sophisticated knowledge about an area. They're just good at writing
textbooks and they go figure it out. That's not Sam. Sam is the is the real deal. So all right, well, anybody else? Final
comments? All right, well, excellent call today. Hey, here’s what we'd love to have you do. | mean, | would maybe
think in the future if we had shorter questions, we would have time to open it up to questions but to be sure, send
them in in advance and that would be awesome. Because then it lets me get my mind around a little bit and then we
can kind of also budget time, but let us know how this one turns out. | think it was great Craig that you got into detail
about it. And | know you're early in the process. And these calls are designed to at least get everybody stimulated
and think about things as opposed to providing all the answers and check all the boxes. But | think you're on the
right track. We talked about some of the things to be thinking through. And we learned some stuff that we probably
wouldn't have done without this case study. So big virtual hand for Craig. Thanks, everybody. And that will wrap it up
for today. Thanks for coming. We'll do it again next month, and you all have a safe and awesome and COVID free

holiday situation. Bye, everybody. Thanks.
contractor, it actually makes your job easier. Sometimes it's cheaper, not usually, but But it's worth it’s worth
considering. So many of the cost, say companies will do a preliminary look, where they'll tell you, Hey, we think we
could do maybe that’s how you got to this number is to go yeah, this is within what we think would work for us. And
here's what the cost would be. Almost always you recoup those costs, there’s one time where you don't and that is
when you don't do the deal. So it’s not the first money | want to spend. But once you're relatively sure you're moving
along, you're in contract, you've got to go and then that's going to be a good piece of information. Until then, from a
sales perspective, you can always have it be part of your business plan that your intent is to get the study. Okay, so
you might make some assumptions in your Performa that say, Well, we're expecting it to be this. But our plan is we're
going to hire the study done in sources of uses, it gets paid for out of the project. And if we do it right, our $10,000
investment is going to yield a $25,000 You know, cumulative deduction, everybody. And those numbers are not that
far off. It could even be more than that. So normally we find if they take the right piece of business, those companies
earn their fee easily. Okay, but there's a big F in there, right? Because some of them aren't as forthcoming as others,
though, oh, sure, we'll do it write a check. And then how useful it is. But once you once you've gone through projects
of this size, it all it's almost always gonna make sense to do that kind of a study and have our professional do it. And
then as a syndicator, there's one more reason to do it. And that is, it is third party professional. And the more we
point to third party professionals, the better we are, if or when something goes wrong, it wasn’t your brother in law
that sent you a spreadsheet. It was a, you know, licensed, enrolled agent or CPA or tax attorney who did the work.
That's why that's part of why they get paid as much as they do. It is a lot of work, though. | mean, to go through and
figure out the components of a property and go through the tax math of figuring out what categories everything
falls in. It's a chunk of work. You wouldn't do it on a single family house, but on 49 units for ground up construction.
Yeah, probably so. Okay. All right, what else? You said it's 80 to $70,000 cash to do the deal. So that's include those
all the equity required.

Craig Kamman 24:51

That was my first numbers. Then | went into Russell's spreadsheet, so I've got to raise closer to like 1,000,001 If | pay
the Promote fee and everything else, and that bumps up 14%, return down to around 12%. So,

Robert 25:09

yeah, everybody understands, but the more money you raise for the same return is going to dilute the return. But the
worst call in the world is a cash call, where you didn’t raise enough money. And for whatever reason, you need more.
So this is a balance between how much do | want to have and contingency and reserve? Versus how painful is it to
call the individual investors, my favorite thing to do is to preempt the cash call. So part of that is to your languaging.
As you're raising capital, either through presentations, or one on one discussion, saying, We're raising 1.2 million, and
here's where it goes. Now you'll see | have X amount under contingency or miscellaneous or whatever that is
reserves. And you explain let me tell you why we do that. We know that things often cost more, sometimes we forget
something, sometimes one thing leads to another. | don't want to have to call you every time we need another $100.
You don't want that, | don't want that. So we're going to raise enough money. So it sits there comfortably in our
account if it's not being used. And as soon as we need it, we have it. But just know that if | put too much in there,
then I'm diluting your return. And a lot of syndicators make this mistake, they get so much extra money that does
nothing but sit in the bank account earning nothing that dumbs down their return. So if you explain it upfront that
way, and say now, by choosing this methodology, sometimes we miss the mark and it means we do need a little bit
more money. So if you're putting $50,000 into my deal, you need to be psychologically and financially prepared to
bring another five or $10,000 to the party. I'm hoping you never have to, but you just need to be prepared. That's a
great conversation to have anyway. Because if you get by off on that, you know something about your investors, if
they push back on that, well, you know, something even more important about your investors. So that's just a good
you know, general business practice but anywhere you have third parties so feasibility studies broker price opinions,
which don't necessarily cost you money, appraisals, any of those professionals that provide service. That's that that’s
Craig Kamman 49:45

on the platform that | saw,

Robert 49:47

yeah, so we want to beef up the collection for anybody who's who's interested, or who would be willing to put their
executive summaries business plans, not full pom, but just kind of the different Your your deal in there even maybe
even especially if it's a deal that's already been done. We can all learn from that. And we got a bunch of those. So
make a note to do this,

Craig Kamman_ 50:10

specifically to that point is how you figure the return, how do | project, the principal reduction? Do | run the full
amortization schedule, add that in, and then run a cap rate on year, whatever, let's say it's your 15 that we sell, just

say it’s gonna sell at a six and a half cap, and then that's going to be the sales price at that year,

Robert 50:34

that's kind of | am a big fan of using a range. So instead of assuming a six and a half cap, 15 years from now, there's
just a lot that can happen between now and then | like showing, here's what it would be at five, here's what would be
at six, seven, or eight, or just whatever the range is, because here's why this is this is bigger than just this discussion.
Same thing with ROI. When someone says, you know, here's the thing, and etc. And so it looks like the annualized
over a 10 year period, our return is going to be 9.12756%. That's way too specific. It's never going to hit that number,
first of all. And secondly, as soon as you put that number out as a number, even though it says it's an estimate that
may vary, and it's performer only, and all those things, sitting there in front of the judge and jury. Did you or did you
not? Mr. Craig, is this your document? does this say 9.1? to seven? That's your number, right? Did you come up with
that number to the client? No, you did. Yeah. But it’s a note is that your number, right? As soon as you have a range,
we expect this return to be somewhere between six and a half and 9% annualized. That might be too big of a range,
but maybe not. So | like having a range range of assumptions. sounds more complicated, but assume different cap
rates, assume different occupancy. 95 might be great, but might not be. So if you play around with a little bit, it’s
gonna create this this range. Now in the past, we've done like the four scenario deal, because you can just beat your
head against us and have these giant spreadsheets with every scenario with a bunch of different variables changing.
So we would just do our realistic, this is what we think, then we're going to have optimistic which is higher, then we're
going to have pessimistic and then sometimes we'd have a catastrophic one, if the world falls apart, and there's
something like a global pandemic, then imagine, right, just to show them that that's very reality based. And they're
going to focus on whatever one they're going to focus on based on their personality and life experience. If they're
pessimistic, they're going to be looking at the pessimistic if they're optimistic. So but what more importantly, is just
gives you a range, because you don't know there's too many things outside of your control. But generally, yeah, you
got to make some assumptions. So we're going to assume a hold of this month, we're going to assume no income for
the first year and a half for two years, we're going to assume that we're going to refinance in year seven by all those
things that you play in, and then that gives you kind of this, this this target range of return, you got to feel good

about it, you got to feel like that's something we can deserve. We can make it performance within reason. And it
sounds like a reasonable number for the market. But then again, you don't control the market, you don't control
occupancy, you don't control what other builders are looking at similar parcels right now to build another 49 units
next door across the street, we can't control everything. So we make the best decision we can at the time, and you
enroll the person and investing in a way that they understand that, hey, this is my educated, experienced opinion. But
it's still just an opinion. Now, that's different if you do something like a secured note at a particular rate. So we're just
making a percentage return based on the income? And how does that get reported to them? And so it's a can of
worms. And there's not one answer, necessarily, what you have to do in your syndication business is figure out, okay,
the people that I'm talking to my clients, my prospects, how do they want to see it? What's what's important to them.
And you may have to interview a couple of sophisticated potential investors to see look at a lot of other deals, see
what appeals. So if it's a property like the one that I've talked about where we did construction, and then sold, we
almost always kept a building or two, but our primary purpose for the LLC in the business was buy some land, come
up with a plan, build it, sell it, pay commissions, costs, and make some money. That was our primary deal. We often
took our profit in buildings, it's just because that was our philosophy. But the basic structure wasn't long term rental
wasn't finding great property management, none of that. In this case, one of the fundamental questions Craig has to
answer is how long do we hold this asset. Sometimes those first couple of years of lien income, get traded off and
appreciation. So the cap rate often looks different five years out, when you have a stabilized asset and the boring
market where cash flows are good and rents continue to go up while your loans continue to get paid down. And your
basis in the property is set. Those can be good returns, that's why hearing something like 14%, in year four, isn't that
surprising. And from there, you'd expect it to maybe go up. Now you also the possibility of refinancing in the future. If
your plan is to own it for 25 years, that's going to appeal and be a different story, then if you said we're going to hold
a four years, most rarely going to start cash flowing in four years, yeah, when we're not doing it for the cash flow,
we're gonna be able to sell it at a cap rate that gets us X return. And so our total return for a four year period isn't
based on cash flow is based on all the ways that we made money. So that’s, that's the part of of matching up the
deal. And how you tell the story in a way that it resonates with the bar and on the borrower, the prospect the
investor, we just did a radio show with a lender. So I've got my minds around borrowers and lenders and all that. So
that's really what it is. There’s not as a standard format, or even standard language, you know, seeing it done 1000
different ways. But the one of the basic premise, excuse me premises is that you never count the return of their initial
investment. In the calculation of ROI. People do it. I've seen it a lot. It's it inflates the return. But it's completely
misleading. And it's not correct. If | put in 100 grand, like 100 grand back, having made me money. Now | could argue
I've lost money because of the opportunity cost and devalued dollars, I'm getting paid back and lesser dollars that
are worth less each. But even setting that aside, it's only the return of the investment where | start to make some sort
of meaningful return. And so what you don't want to do, in my humble opinion is to mix those two things you do not
want. Sorry, | got people in the waiting room. I'm so bad that | pay no attention. So you don't want to have to lead
them down a path that that doesn't fit with them. It doesn't fit with you. So if you're just joining us, I'm sorry. | was
late admitting people | have to get better at hosting this. | get so impassioned, so bad. Does that help? Sticking me a
button, but yes, it’s good. All right, | know what often times yes question, well, what should | do. And rather than do
that, right that mean there's | can tell you what we've done, but what you have to do is going to be based on who
your who your audience is. So many of you have decided 506 C for life, you're only gonna take accredited investors,
and you're gonna probably deal with people that are fairly sophisticated. The great thing about that, is they're
gonna look over your documents, they're gonna be pretty quick answer there, yes, as a yes, you're not gonna have as
many fallout that happens. But right. They won't be as demanding. Typically, these will be generalizations, but there's
only so many of them. And reaching them is a crowded space. There's a lot of folks that are on their way to become
accredited. And so if you're willing to take non accredited investors, it's a little more investment in time and
relationship and education and holding their hand and sometimes miss stepping. But you build a really great

business two, so I'm not saying one's better than the other, just knowing that

A 36:17

you either make $200,000 a year or have over a net worth of million dollars.

© Robert 36:23

Changes, laws covered that the basic understanding loss,
Craig Kamman_ 08:37

| approached him on another project. And | explained what | was trying to do with syndication. And he says, I've got
three projects lined up. And he showed me the first one, he’s got two more buildings behind this. They've got two in
the ground already. And because of our relationship, | bumped the other investors.

Robert 08:56

Awesome. So first of all, that’s a great lesson in general, anyone who's got multiple pipelines, someone we want to be
in a conversation with, and it's a relationship business for so for sure, you want to not just do the deal because of
that. But all things being equal again, this could lead to other deals, so you want to approach it with the right
attitude. So the next part is your fundamental question, which is, is there anybody who's going to be attracted to a
deal like this? So in order to help answer that, | know you've done an initial Performa. But just share with the folks on
the line, what you think, you know, ad stabilization, year four and beyond what the performance what the results

might look like for a passive investor.

Craig Kamman 09:43

Let me go back to my notes. Bear with me. Okay. So you're for 95% occupancy, we're looking at cash rate Turn of oh
my gosh, | need bifocals here. Where am | at in cash return on cash 15 and a half percent. Okay. And then well, here's

Robert 10:15

the other reality of a brand new build. As you mentioned, it takes a year to build it takes a year or more to stabilize it.
You've got all kinds of things that can and will go wrong in new construction. And so it takes a particular type of
investor. Now my first seven syndications Well, I'll say seven of my first eight syndications were all brand new ground
up construction, one was a rehab. So it still was a lot of construction and complete vacancy, but, and it was a time
period where we're gonna put the money and get out, not hold something for production of income. We're all brand
new builds. So the basic premise of those deals and you've seen some of them in syndication, the office condo deals
was these are two year deals. You know, we're in a year before, but by the time we go, you know, search for capital,
we're saying two years, and rarely did it actually go two years, but 1820 22 months, and we're gonna take your
money, we're gonna buy some land, we're gonna get a construction loan, we're gonna build some stuff, we're gonna
sell it, we're gonna have costs, there’s going to be profit, and all that's going to take two years. And during that time,
there's zero income, not any, where would it come from? It doesn't come from anywhere if you're not lend if you're not
renting it up. But everyone who invested was like, Duh, like, | get that. Okay. Right. It's a it's a construction project. So
now, the next project we did was a multifamily project. And it was like, well, the things already performing and
working it up to better performance in a year, but it’s going to create cash flow in quarter one. And our investors were
like, What do you mean? Like, don't you just hang on to the money for a couple of years, and then you give it back to
us? Well, that's how we had kind of done all our deals so far, far. And that was their expectation. So bring that up,
because investor expectation is critical when you have someone who's invested in multifamily. And now they're
attracted to this multifamily, because this market is unique. It's diversification, in a lot of ways, it's less cost. So there's
reasons to like it, it's brand new, you're not going to have cash flow for a while. So you do have to understand, and
this is for any deal, kind of where the leverage points are. And when people can expect to see a return. You can sell
anything, and you can find an investor for anything. If it’s, you know, decent amount of return. Are there people that
will understand there's going to be zero cash flow in the first two years, then maybe a little in year three, then by year
four, we're going to be at 14 or 15%. Yeah, that might work great for people. So what normally happens is, we look at

a blended rate, Russ would say, put it all in a blender, | would say just What's your average annual return over the
