spelling. So | could look him up on LinkedIn, which I'm going to do but | keep going. Here's another real estate thing.
Jura pedia. So that looks like he was maybe I'm guessing he was maybe selling distressed property. I'm guessing
because it's contact him. It’s a deal Openhouse furniture liquidation and Jura pedia I'm guessing has to do with
lawsuits like a Wikipedia for for lawsuits. Now. | didn't look that one up. And then this one | thought was interesting
cross doc buddy. And this phone number actually, | think | shows up. Yeah, here. Same phone number again. And this
is fortress freight. It's a freight company. So now I'm like, Who the hell is this guy? | mean, is he in real estate? Is he an
E commerce? Is he in freight? Is he | don't you know, is he? | don't I'm confused. Right? And then and then that was
the end of it. So | said, Okay, I've got some stuff to go on. So | went over and looked up his real estate agent page,
because | thought no real estate, that'd be the thing that was most relevant. And | can see here you can see his
name, but nothing. So he's obviously no longer in that business. But this page exists. So if | had this in my past, | tried
to contact the company and go, Hey, you know what, I’m no longer with the company, can you delete this page from
your website? It doesn't serve you and it doesn't serve me. And then this would disappear. All right, there was another
name associated with the business and that was rental D rentals. DFW no such site. Okay, well, | don’t know if he
owned that site, or didn't put it up or owns it and wants to do something. But you know, it's like, okay, | get to
activities that appear to no longer be in business. So what kind of a picture is being painted about this guy in my
mind right now? Right. Mean? This is a guy that wants to be on my show. Once Robert and | to interview him and
promote him and tell our 1000s of listeners all about it. Like I'm trying to figure out who this guy is. So | keep going
This is another place the phone Shut up. This was the freight company fortress freight. And here's the same phone
number. Like, wow, that’s weird. | think | went to the website also. And | don't think it existed. | didn't put that in the
copy. But anyway, so it definitely looks like it’s our guy. Or maybe it's just his phone number, you know, when you get
a phone number that's been recycled, right? So if you get a phone number for your business, or business or phone
that you're going to use, like a cell phone or something where you're going to be calling people. The first thing you
have to do is look the phone number up and see maybe it belong to like a Ponzi scheme guy or an axe murderer or a
child molester, you don't know. And if somebody looks you up by your phone number, you need to find out what
they're going to see before they see it might not be a bad idea to set a Google alert for your phone number as well.
Oh, here, let me just make sure we don't have anybody in the waiting room. No, we're good. Okay. All right. So
anyway, so | say okay, that's enough on his phone number. Let's go over and look by his name. So | looked him up in
his LinkedIn page, and | found him Is it okay is nice looking guy, Dallas, okay, probably the same guy. And | think |
found another page. So anyway, | became convinced it was a guy, when | saw a million dollar middleman. I'm like,
Okay, this is the guy, | was able to link the brand and the phone number, the phone number is just like a brand
building social security number, right? If you know somebody's phone number, and they've got it attached to
everything they do, then you can link together everything they they're into. And so I'm saying okay, so what does this
guy do? Your net worth is in your network. Okay, | didn't go to his YouTube channel. | was going to and somebody
wants to do that just to see how big he is. But | can see right here, he had 290 connections. And so he's talking about,
you know, your network, and he's got a network of 290. Like, okay, well, you know, | remember when | started out, it
took me a while to build it up, | put a concerted effort into getting to where | was 500 Plus, because once you go over
500 plus it, it looks credible, because lots of people have 500 plus, and and then you know, you just have to work it.
So it takes time to work it up. And and that's the other thing you have to know, you know, when we contacted Steve
Forbes to get him on the show, we did it in the context of watching until until our show was way up on the iTunes
ranking. And his show was way down. So in the top 200, who was number 197. We were like number 13. | took a
screenshot of that just so that we would have it. And then that was the day | reached out. And | said, Hey, you know,
we have a show on iTunes. And, you know, we're number 13. | see you guys are also in the top 200. You know, and I'm
not saying that's what worked. But | waited until we were in a position of strength. You know, if you go back to the
How to Win funds and influence people and you remember the scene where I'm where | show the basketball player,
and he's trying to shoot but he's just buried. And I'm like, No, you got to get open before you take your shot. If you try
to shoot when you're covered. It’s not going to work. This guy is covered with baggage from his past and he’s trying
to take a shot. It didn’t work. Right? He got he got rejected. Alright, so then here's this million dollar middleman. I'm
like, okay, so this kind of seems like million dollar middleman. And he's a speaker and he likes to take pictures of
himself. Okay, well, | can relate to that. | do that too. We do that. Okay. But | still can’t quite tell what it’s all about.
It's marketing. It looks like he’s a marketing guru. Looks like that's what he is. And again, I'm not putting him down

just the positioning and the technique because he's positioned himself as a marketing guru, | guess or somebody
JO

sponsors. So we have got to get we do that through our special reports library. So we're going to get the email
address. So | said, move the move the sign up for the newsletter down. We don't care about Facebook, move that
down. The first thing they need to see in the upper right hand side is the special reports go to our special reports
library. When you go into the special reports library, you're going to see all kinds of free content, a different form of
content, not audio, but but written content, downloadable content, all you got to do is ask for it. You fill out the form
boom we get your email address, but now we've had an exchange of value. And so my point about a website is it
needs to quickly describe who you are in a way that is is uniquely is unique as you can be as you know whatever
what Kyle would call your secret sauce to the best you can do it and offer them something that the right avatar is
going to want to get them Do what you want them to do, whatever that is. And for most people, it's, Hey, | want, you
know, | want their email address. So | think it's much better to offer a free report a set of free reports a book, a free
concert, like Rick Rule, if you ever hear Rick Rule who's a billionaire, by the way, in the resource sector, every time he's
on an interview, he does his whole value add interview, showing off how smart he is, at the very end, he goes in, if
anybody would like free of charge, | will, you know, review your your portfolio and send you back my thoughts. And
he gives us personally email, which I'm sure is attended to by people, and he probably has identified every company
in the sector and can quickly just cut and paste back, you know, his analysis of the portfolio. And if somebody
happens to give them a company that he hasn't seen before, he probably does the research adds it to the library.
And he probably has a team of researchers that are constantly updating it is a great value, add, but it's a great lead
capture mechanism that's totally personal. It's brilliant. If | could find a way, if | could think of a way to do something
like that with us, I'd do it in a heartbeat. So if you have good chance to hear if you just Google around and look for
Rick Rule, and try to listen to an interview of him and just watch the way he works, it does a great job. Okay, so to
me, that's, you know, the website, and then the website is, the rest of the website is really just like your business plan,
just like everything else. | mean, you basically have to tell a story. And the story is, you know, the who, what, where,
when, why, and how | mean, it's, you know, who am I? Why should you care? What do we do? How does it help you?
Where are we located? You know, just like, Are you real? What do you want me to do? Or what can you do for me?
What do | have to do to access that. And it's got to be low barrier. So you have cast a wide net, the higher the
barrier. So you want to have a lot of perceived value, hopefully, something that's leverageable. So that's why I'm a
big fan of free reports, if you can find a way to do leverage personal consultation, great. Could be, you know, book
recommendations, it could be, you know, something, you're going to do any way that you think your avatar would
value. But that’s the purpose of the website is to explain to people who you are, and get them to take some form of
action, so that you can have them go from being anonymous, to being known. Okay, from a sales and marketing.
Now you can have an interactive, you know, a customer portal where you're delivering information privately, like SMC
is a private platform. Right. By the time you're in SMC, we don't have to tell our story. It’s told it's sold your soldier
here. But the front end sites, those are marketing sites. So those are two different things, right. And you're not saying
you don't do marketing, and you know, build enthusiasm and all that stuff, telling your story and add it, you know,
demonstrating your value, constantly reinforcing the relationship on the portal. But just understand those two things
are different. And if you try and put them together in one website, you're gonna, you're gonna end up getting mixed,
because you're talking to two different people, one on the front end of the pipe, and one on the back end. And those

are very different people.

58:14

Yes, yep. Just want to make sure we cover Dave's question, too. And thank you for answering that. Russ. Who, what,
why, where? And? And how is good formula to keep in mind when?

Russ 58:24

Yeah, it's the basics of journalism. You know, it's the basics of anything. | mean, you know, if you want the people to
get great conclusions, you have to feed them great, great questions, you think about Jeopardy, right? in jeopardy,
you give them the answer. But it prompts them to think of the question. And so if whatever you're answering is
JO

O°
O)

responding to a question you can evoke in their mind as a response to what you said, now they're engaged. And you
have to do that in marketing. So either you can just pose the question and then answer it, which is what a lot of
people do. Or you can ask, you can make your statement in such a way that the question is implied, you leave
enough vagueness in it with enough intrigue, that their curiosity is piqued and they start to dig in and try to figure it
out. But the key is you have to engage them. If there's not engagement, it's not a conversation. And even in
marketing, you have to have conversations. When | write the newsletter, | write in a language so that people or any
of the promos to fill the room, | write in a way that you're having a conversation inside your head, because | know
people you know, basically say the words in their mind as they're going and and so if you if you are aware of that you
can you can literally if you use conversational language, and again, that may not be appropriate, you know, high
level financial stuff depends on what you're writing, and how you're trying to hook people. You know, we're obviously
in a little bit different as far as what the real estate guys do, and that's where | spend most of my time writing. But,
but | think you get the idea. Okay, yeah. And we are at the top To the hour, but we'll stretch it a little bit for Mr. Kafka.
So David, what's your what's your question? Got to unmute. That's his question. How do | unmute you click the little
red microphone. And it goes off. There you go.

1:00:15

All right, we have a lot of construction. | was just wondering what | sent him a message. But I'm just wondering,
Where do you do the reverse lookup, but John sent it.

Russ 1:00:27

To that | use the phone number. | use DuckDuckGo cuz | hate Google. But it’s just an internet search, you just put the
phone number in and see what happens. So it's not really a reverse lookup, because I'm not interested. I'm looking
for a directory, | want to know everywhere that phone number has been listed as a call to action. Because that's
what a phone number is. If you put your phone number on something, it's a call to action, call me. What are you
selling? If | want to know what you're selling, and | know your phone number, and | looked you up on the internet, I'm
going to learn something about what you're selling. And in this case, | was super confused because | couldn't figure
out what this guy was selling. But his original pitch was that he had he wanted to talk about his products and
services on our show. Well, I'd like what are they can't figure it out. All right. Okay, So gentlemen, I'm going to call
that a wrap. Good session. Really appreciate your involvement and participant. Oh, Dave, you got another question?

Are you waving? You're just saying goodbye? Saying goodbye.

1:01:28

Or something? If you got 20 seconds? 20 seconds?

© Russ. 1:01:31

Oo
O)

Because we're Oh, yeah.

1:01:33

So | got two people confirmed for sending email out this morning. Have two people confirmed to come out to Param.
Oh, great. And | got this email from my buddy Tom. Wow. Is this is very cool and gracious of you, John, you hit just

about every hot button | have is | decided which firearm to carry today. Unfortunately, the dates don’t work for me.
when the internet came, there was complete price visibility. And so | had to get really good at selling value to justify
why they were paying more for the very same products they saw advertised everywhere for less. And | was very
successful at it. But that’s because | was good at focusing on what they were getting, not what they were paying.

14:03

What makes sense. Obviously, you're not going to syndicate $100,000 deal. What makes sense is the smallest size
that it's kind of worth it.

JO

© Russ 14:14

I'm telling you, you got to do the math, just gotta do the math, you got to do the math, like how much gross profit is
there? How much time are you going to have to spend, just do the math, you have to look at the deal and do the
math. This is a business of doing a lot of math. Right? And then the math has to have context. And the context is the
story of the deal. And we've talked about that. | think some of the stuff we did with SAP in those sessions we did with
his business plans, learning how to tell the story of the deal. Today, we're talking about positioning. And in fact, | did
a case study for you guys for this because we only had the two questions and | wasn't sure we would get to them. So
| that's kind of my backup plan. | can do that as a standalone module, but | think we beat this horse pretty well. You
can if you want to, you know kind of look at it from a deal perspective and kind of get into negotiating deal that
Robert does the Ask the mentors on the deal side. But just in terms of the marketing side, | think Victor's point was
well made, just understand how you are going to be perceived by your syndicators when they look at what else is
available. And we've just broke that down. And then also be aware of client control. And that, that, you know, when
you introduce your customers to someone else's deal, you have to understand, you know, what the person on the
other side motives are, and make sure that you negotiate what the terms of engagement are, so that you don't end
up losing control of your your client. Okay, so before we switch subjects, you have the three gentlemen, is anybody

have any questions or comments on that particular topic? Nope, you're good, David. Good Jared,

15:46

satin thing to add on to it. Though, | just want to highlight the point that Russ made about the value that you bring
to the table John to the investors, maybe that can be a slide or that can be part of your, your dialogue with the
investors as you have experienced with the property management side of things. And you know, you're you're
bringing them the ease of making it passive, yeah, they can go do it themselves. But you can go build an iPhone
yourself, too. And that will take forever to assemble it and program it. Or you can give them a pre packaged iPhone,
which is basically what you're, you're doing. So | think there's this tremendous value in having a property manager
syndicator and leading and organizing and seeing the deal from A to Z.

© Russ 16:28

Yeah, it's like the difference between going into the bulk warehouse and buying a computer versus going into the
Microsoft or the Apple Store and having a professional consultant, right? People will pay a premium who wants to
have that kind of concierge service? I'm one of them. Right? You don't see me in a Fry's buying anything? Right? |
want somebody to hold my hand and walk me through the process. The other thing that he brought up, which | think
is great, and this is specific to you, but it’s because you asked the question, John, the property management angle is
huge. So again, one of the one of the techniques in sales in getting people to understand things is to talk to them in
languages, metaphors, pictures, experiences they can relate to. So if | know a little bit about who I'm talking to, and
they've ever had any experience whether you know, in a corporate environment or as a self employed person, if
are people in the business. But | thought if | start reading the thought leaders of the people who are in that space,
pretty soon | will begin to understand the needs wants desires, goals and objectives of my avatar, okay, so that that's
number one. And then once you have that, then then you you look for an opportunity to get into a relationship with
them to offer that to them somehow, some way and again, how you get in. | mean, the art of even getting into a
conversation is that’s a whole different thing. You know, what we've been in the office supply business, you know, |
learned a lot. And what | learned is if you go in the front door and ask the receptionist, that's what every other
salesperson every other company does 100,000 times a day. And that person walks in, and they're being interrupted
by somebody they don't want to talk to wasn't invited. And pretty soon you start getting the cold shoulder. Well, it
took me about three of those experiences to go, | don't want to do this. So how can | get to the person | want to get
to in the proper positioning, and | probably told the story before but it bears repeating. | would call the CEOs office.
And | would ask to talk to talk to the CEO. Well, of course, | would not get the CEO, | get the CEOs, Doberman, the
secretary who protected him or her but back then it was mostly guys in the CEOs office and mostly women in the
secretary because I'm not trying to be sexist. That's just the way it was back then. Alright, so anyway, so then she'd
say, oh, no, you don't need to talk to him, you need to talk to this VP of purchasing, because she works top down. And
so then | would call up that office to say how was referred to you by the CEO? True, absolutely true. And then I'd say
what | want because Oh, no, no, no, you don't want to talk to me, you want to talk to this person, purchasing
manager, okay. And I'd work down and same thing call. And you get the idea. By the time | got to the person | was
supposed to talk to was like three or four levels up from the receptionist, but like 10 layers deep from the CEO, | was
where | needed to be, and | was properly positioned. Okay, so however you get there, you have to figure out a way to
get there, you know, to get into the relationship and every situation is different. And sometimes you'll have a window
of opportunity just got to jump. Like when when | was in the Robert helms seminar the very first time and Robert said
he was looking for an assistant, | told my daughter who was with me at the time, 17 years old, go apply for that job. |
like right now get up and go do it right now. Don't wait a minute, go do it right now changed my life changed her life
to change a lot of people's lives because then that was the beginning. And then it took me a while to get to know
Robert but having sat in a seminar | learned a little bit about what he needed. And | could tell lots of stories about
that. But that’s number one. Number two is then now the other part of the question is positioning them How do you
position them? Well, that depends on what you have to work with strategies always about what you have to work
with. How can | take what | have to get where | want to go and along the way attract what | need to finish the
journey. And again, that's going to be very personal, based on the particular individual. So once they're on the team,
you know, then then you're letting them know that or you're positioning them as somebody who you have access to,
which means you have access to their knowledge, their experience, and potentially their relationships. don't oversell
it. Like we were careful when we tell you we have this advisory board for syndication mentoring club and everybody
on the advisory board you get to hear from or see or interact with in some way. But, you know, you don't have
George Ross a cell phone. You don't have you know, Dave Zuck, | mean, so you know, Kenny McElroy, these people
that we have, that they're on our advisory board, now, any one of those people will take my call. And if you guys
stumped me, I'll go look for an answer. And so that's how we positioned it, because our value add in this is, hey, if you
guys bring a problem, | have people who can help me they're more experienced, or smarter than | am, or more
technically capable, was same thing. Like, look, I'm not an island, | am an organizer, and an administrator of
resources. So | oversee all these operations. And you know, and then in your case shared because | know your
background, you might talk about how you learned that or observe that or, you know, in your military training,
because that, that’s all about people working with teams and, and having people they report to and subordinates
and advisors, to saying, you know, whatever. And of course, if you can, like | said to John earlier, if you can find a way
to explain that to whoever you're talking to, in some type of language or metaphor, word picture that they relate to,
because of their life experience, which presupposes before you're talking, you know, a little bit about the person.
That's why, you know, knowing John was a property manager right away, CEP was able to say, hey, there's
something you have that isn’t generic, it's unique to you, or like me talking to you now. It's like, oh, | the main thing |
know about you is your military background, | know you have some corporate sales background, but the vast, you
know, majority of your experience is military. So you know, | try to talk to you in that language, because | feel like it's
going to connect better. And you just have to know who you're talking to. You know, and then that's when you're
doing individual conversations. But even if you if you know the people or have an idea of the people who are in your

database, and who you're talking to, then you just talk to either the fat spot or the sweet spot, either the biggest
A 10:00

Well, you added another value add. So there's the passive versus active angle, then there's the, the diversification
angle. So those are two selling points right there. The last thing is, how do you | guess you don't, if you're going to
pitch this to someone, they're going to know where the project is, they're going to know who the developer is. So you
introduce them, and they say, You know what, that is a great deal. I'm gonna go buy one myself, you're out?

© Russ 10:35

Well, | mean, that’s okay. | mean, at the end of the day, you're there to serve someone. And if they feel that, when
they look at the two value propositions as the value proposition to doing it on their own as their best interest, let
them do it. And if it's our very first time, I'm pretty sure that within a few months are going to wish they would have
done it with you. Because most people think they want to be real estate investors, because they think it works like
being a stock investor, and then they find out that that's not the case. You know, there's a reason there's only a very
small intrepid group of people in the world that invest in real estate, because real estate is hairy, it's messy, it’s a pain
in the ass. But if you if you like it, if you're good at it, if you can master it, then that’s what syndicating is all about.
Because you can take that willingness to do that work, and especially when you do it, right, and you scale, so that
you have help, you know, you talked about, you know, the PPM and some of those expenses. So those are fixed
expenses against a scalable operation, you know, if you do too, probably not worth it, if you do 200, it’s probably, you
know, just a basis point or two in the, in the overall budget, right? | mean, it just depends. So the whole point of
syndication is that you have the ability to go bigger, better. But the key to going bigger is, is is, is being great at the
marketing, you have to have a big brand and a big network. And then you buy, as | say and chant at the seminar,
you know, build your brand, build your network, build your brand, build your network, when we find a deal, that
makes sense. And you put it in front of your network, based on the power of your brand, your positioning, it'll fund.
And that's big money, do it.

A 12:09
What makes sense, remember, | have no perspective at this point, what makes sense, you know, he started out for

plexes. So one unit equals four Plex, four doors. So what makes sense on something like that, 10, for plexes, five, for
Plexus 30,

© Russ 12:27

you just have to do the math, do the math, and the math will tell you what to do. And again, going back to the
compared to what you know, it obviously to your point, people who are in the deal are going to know what the deal
is, they're gonna know where the deal is, they're going to know exactly what the four Plex costs at retail, what the
public buys them for, they're smart enough to look at what they've paid, and divide it and decide whether they got a
deal or not. So you know, if you have a better deal, then it’s a no brainer, right? If it's an equal deal, and you're
throwing in additional services, that's still pretty justifiable. If it's more if it's more money, and not from this, then
you've got to hang on a minute, then you got to sell your value, you have to know where you're at in in relations
positioning, you have to know where your deal is at in position in relation to what else the the prospect might see.
And be aware of that. Once you're aware of that, then you have to decide, okay, now, how does my deal compare.
And, you know, | just went through three different scenarios, you're either below, you're the same, or you're over, you
know, now, if you're over, that's the one that requires the most sales skill, because you have to justify your margin, |, |

grew up selling office supplies in, you know, Silicon Valley, and | was selling a commodity to professional buyers. And
JO

grand drawn up by Mauricio and just, I'm trying to wrap around my head around, | send an email off to Steve Olsen.
Yep. And I'm just saying, Hey, keep me on your list and let me know when deals are coming up. And he responded, |
plan on actually having a call with him and and telling him hey, | don't | don't know what I'm doing. I'm just getting
started. Tell me what you think a sub syndication looks like. So and then how do you go sell that and how to add
value, | put a message up on the message board with respect to sub syndication. And his name is escape Victor,

Victor, Victor,

Russ 03:01

| saw that

03:03
pretty much shot the whole idea down didn't like it at all. So I'm like, Ah,

Russ 03:09

well, so | think the one thing that that tells you is that there is no one size fits, all right, you have to have your own
personal syndication philosophy. And we're not here to filter, or censor, we let people kind of say what they want to
say. And that's what we're all here rubbing our brains against each other. You know, our, if you look at our deal in
Belize that Robert and | did, virtually all of it is sub syndicated. So we're here to tell you it works if you do it. But you
can do it either way. | think what Victor brought up, which is a good point, and this is the sales and marketing side is
you never want to put yourself in a position where your investors are getting a second tier deal because you've
stepped on it. In other words, you have to set up a deal where either the the developer or whoever is doing it is not
syndicating themselves so that you are the only syndicator they could go through or everybody that is sub
syndicating is getting kind of the same deal, at least from you. And then what they put together for their group of
investors is up to them. You know, in so in this case was Steve, he's not syndicating. He's either selling directly to
individual investors, or to you to syndicators, who are going to buy in bulk. When we talked to him and said, hey, you
know, this, this may be a deal our club would be interested in, but you got to make sure there’s enough meat on the
bone, Robert, and | don't get into the weeds of that, you know, we don't tell somebody how much profit they should
make or how much they should be willing to give up or what it's worth for them. If they're going to, in fact, change
your view here real quick. If they're in fact going to put put the deal together. So you know, you guys have to figure alll
that out. So you know, aside from the fact that the numbers have to make sense for you, and they have to make
sense for Your to your investors on a from a sales and marketing perspective, you want to make sure that whatever
deal is publicly available, nobody can get a better deal, then, you know, then yours in other words that it’s got to be
the same. So now now, but there’s some advantages, right? You're offering something when you come in and you're a
syndicator, and you're offering somebody a passive investment, that's a lot different than them buying an individual
property. And so that's a value add, you're going to source the deal, you're going to, you're going to aggregate the
deal. So you know, | don't think that the price has to be exactly the same. Like if you had 10 properties, and you had
10 investors and you you intend investors in your pool? Theoretically, each one could go buy their own property, if
they were all invested equally, and say, Well, why wouldn't | just do that? Well, there's a lot of reasons why you just
wouldn't do that, you know, because of all the services I'm going to provide and all the things you're not going to
have to do that I've done. Now, if you can add to that, a little bit of meat on the bone, because you're buying in bulk,
and there's there's a discount, that could be a way to do it. And that's a matter of getting into the numbers. But in
terms of the positioning, you just Victor's point is that if you sub Syndicate, he made the assumption that you were
subsidy cating, with somebody else who's syndicating and that you might lose control of the investor, because the
investor would become loyal to the other syndicator and not you. So that’s a concern, you have to make sure you
think about that. Second thing is you have to make sure that the deal they get the value they get is competitive. And
that super hyper connected, but his stats don't back that up. His online appearance doesn't back that up. So the fact
that he says it doesn't make it true. And I'm just trying to find out are you telling me the truth? Who are you? So |
keep going. So | go to the website, it was like, Okay, | want to find out this appears to be the brand this is the main
deal. So I'm trying to understand what his value proposition is. So look at this is his homepage. What is his value
proposition? Connecting apparently, connect connecting. But he's saying let's connect Let's you and | connect but
I'm like, Okay, what what do | get out of this connection? | feel like | kind of know what | bring to the party. What
what does this guy bring to the party? He's a veteran. Okay, I’m supportive of that. Let’s connect create a profile. |
don't know. So | scroll down a little further. And then | get the picture. Okay, for sure. It's the guy, same picture. And
his tagline is, everything is negotiable. | don't know what that means to me. What does that mean? Is he gonna is he
going to what are we negotiating my negotiating with him? Is he offering to negotiate on my behalf? In what
capacity medical billing issues personal injury, consulting contracts, | mean, what is he negotiated? What? So he
probably in his mind has context. Oh, hold on looks like somebody got kicked out. Sorry, John, | didn’t notice you got
kicked out. Hope | didn’t do that. | don't think | did that. So apparently he has context, in his mind, always remember,
whatever you are saying is, in a context, a paradigm, a way you look at the world, the way you understand and
process things. And if you can't look at you through the eyes of the people you're talking to, then you're going to
make assumptions in your communication. And what he's probably said made total sense to him. But it made no
sense to me. | have no context. Everything is negotiable. | don't know what that means. So I've gotten quite a while
trying to figure out who this guy is. And is he worth my time? Right? If | put him on the show? Is he going to promote
you to his 10,000 followers? Is he going to share a great piece of investing success or a tip that my audience is really
going to value? | mean, I'm not. | don't know. I'm just I'm confused. And of course, | was long gone by this point, | went
deeper just to make the point here. So now, if | had handed this to the team, one of the things they do with
everybody that wants to be on the show is they do a website traffic and reputation search. And so we want to find
out how much how much traffic they have. Because you know, maybe they have a busy website, maybe if | you know,
but it doesn't look like there's any promotion. There's just one thing, this is kind of the Google one thing, this this is a
squeeze page, or it’s not a squeeze page, because there's no offer. It’s just, | want your email address. That's it. This is
just | want your email address, because everything's negotiable. And I'm the million dollar middleman in the middle
of what don't know, not sure. Don't know. Nothing about real estate, nothing. It's just confusing as can be. So | kept
on going thinking maybe at the bottom, there's going to be an About Us A products and services, a testimonial,
something that's going to tell me who this guy is. But no, just that brand building phone that backfire, the phone
number that unlocked the key to this whole mess, right? That was the only thing here is like, hey, | want your email
and the phone number. So no physical address, not even a faux physical address to make me think you're legit. Just
this website that doesn't tell me who you are what you do, you're asking for my email, my phone number. And this
phone number has painted a picture about you that you probably think is buried on the Internet somewhere. You've
long since forgotten, but it’s not. It’s not. So now I'm just having fun. I’m just morbidly curious, like, what else is this
guy? So | go through looking at the rest of the pages, and | found some other clues. So because | was guessing that
the million dollar middleman probably wasn't paying the bills, based on what | was seeing. And this was another
Facebook page attached to the phone number. And this is for markets was an e commerce website. And it had 137
people and a website and that same phone number. So I'm like, Okay, well, let's go look at the website. When | went
to the website. It's basically an e commerce Store that never got set up. So another unfinished project. So what I've
seen is just a series of unfinished undeveloped half started projects from the million dollar middleman. Phone number
showed up on another Facebook page, Joshua buys houses, this is Facebook, same phone number. And so I'm like
okay, now | finally get to a real estate connection right all this time he hits up the real estate guys radio show,
presumably medicine, a real estate event. And nothing that I've seen up to this point has anything to do with real
estate that’s still alive or appears to be still alive. Because when | went to rentals, DFW, there was nothing. And | can't
remember the other site was but there was nothing Oh, the real epic Realty, there was nothing. So now | find Joshua
Buys Houses Facebook, | think, Okay, this is how the guy makes money. 67 people following let's go check out the
website. So | could check out the website. And it looks like Joshua doesn't buy houses anymore. Okay, so maybe the
million dollar middleman whatever that really is, is the main thing. At this point. I'm exhausted. I've learned nothing
valuable. There's the picture that has been painted to me is awful. Right. And so again, I'm not dispiriting it probably
a very nice guy, family guy looks like a very, he probably has zero training. And you know, and the thing is, it was just

the one thing that unlocked all of this, you know what | call the gave me the combination to his Dirty Laundry Locker
was his phone number. He used the same phone number, probably his personal cell phone number everywhere,
because it was what too expensive to spend $10 more and buy another phone number. | don't know, | don't know. But
it's an easy mistake to make. And in the age of the internet, you can't make those mistakes, you guys cannot afford
to make these mistakes, because especially in syndication, you are asking people to trust you with hundreds of 1000s
if not millions of dollars, you have got to paint a picture that his that shows that you are the six C's, and especially
the first two, well, maybe the three you got to show yourself to to have character, you have to show yourself to have
competency, you have to show yourself to have capacity, you have to show yourself to be committed somebody that
gets things over the line, right? There has to be a consent, you know, | think | said consistency, compatibility and
alignment, you have to say something about yourself so that people can decide if it’s a match or not. Right. So
there's just a lot of things missing. And again, | just want to reiterate, I'm not attacking this guy at all, I'm just saying
that | get this kind of stuff, literally, every week would not be an exaggeration, | could probably make the argument
that comes in every day. And | just you know, when you're trying to get in front of an influencer, you're trying to get in
front of somebody that has the ability to explode your brand. You need to you need to take your shot when you're
open. You can't do it. When you're mired in baggage, a simple change of phone number, | would not have found this
about him, | would have found some by his name. But again, just you got to clean all that up. So anyway, | thought
that that was kind of fun and interesting. And | don't know what prompted me to prep it for today. But you know,
based on John, you're opening questions or comments about positioning, | just think that that's the theme of this.
This session is just really understanding the power of positioning and how important it is. It’s not just what you say
about yourself. But it’s it's what the internet says about you. And then you have to ask yourself, how, what unlocks
that? Well, in this case, the phone number, your email also

47:32

JO

just been looking at my phone numbers, and everything looks good. It's like Oh, man.

© Russ 47:39

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, | looked at my phone number from time to time just to see,

A7:A5

JO

I've done it with my name, but not my phone numbers. So that was interesting.

© Russ 47:49

Yeah, phone number email address, too. You know, we get people that think they're anonymous and flame us and
send us a snotty email or something. And then, you know, | look them up, and | find out exactly who they are, what
they look like, where they work. You know what | mean? It's amazing. Like, why? And again, | wouldn't you know, |
would never get into like, some public pissing contest with somebody, you know, | don’t even | would never do like a
Twitter or anything like that, right? I'm not about that. | don't think that adds any value to the world. But anyway, any
questions or comments about any of this from you guys? SAP?

48:26

Dave, go ahead, your first. My question is more on maybe a follow up topic. And | don't know if this is in the platform,

| have to look for it. But taking what we just learned from the bad positioning, what is the anatomy of a good
Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales and Marketing
with Russell...

@ Wed, 10/27 9:06AM © 1:03:22

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, phone number, deal, syndication, buy, question, positioning, add, syndicating, selling, website, robert, experienced,

middleman, business, marketing, real estate, syndicator, sales, person

SPEAKERS

Russ, Jarrid Cavanaugh

) Russ 00:17

JO

jo

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ, we're here for another edition of Ask The mentors. And this time, we're
going to be talking about sales and marketing, which we do once a month. And we have some, some club members
on board and a couple inner circle members and SMC members. So excited to do that we only have guys, first of all,
thank you for being here, because these things are no fun to do by myself. So | know it’s this, what, two days before
Christmas? So | don't advise you, but I’m losing my mind. So there was a question submitted by Felicia who's not on
the call. She may be joining later, but it really had to do with a bio review, reviewing her biography. And | think that
we've done quite a bit on that before. I'm not sure that | want to take the time to try to do that, unless everybody
thinks that that's what they want to do. And then John, you had a question? That why don't you go ahead and just
ask it? And if | feel like it fits the topic, I'll deal with it. If not, then we'll have to try to find a different way to deal with
it. Maybe it's more of a deals call with Robert.

01:21

Fair enough?

Russ 01:22

Does it have a sales or marketing context? Or?

O25

Well, | think it does, because | really need to flesh out the whole idea that so | don't know, if you guys saw the four
Plex group video that they put out, there’s a gentleman, and they do for plexes. And they sell them to individual
investors. And it was introduced in the video by Russell as a sub syndication deal, which is something I'm very
interested in, in getting my feet wet. So just the whole concept of sub syndication. Now, obviously, you're adding
another layer. So the marketing of it is one thing and how do you get paid and you still need to go get a PPM for 15
_JO

Thank you, brother. Merry Christmas. That's from my friend, Tom Ziglar. I'm sure you know,

Russ 1:02:05

| know Tom. So So I'll tell you what this is this is. This is a concept | learned very early in my sales career. And it's
called the offer is just as good. And when you offer something to somebody, and they can't accept it, then you get
credit, as if you had delivered the gift. And my uncle used to do this. He | mean, he was | shouldn't have dropped my
anyway, he was the guy that mentored me. He's the one that taught me is La hustle. He go, you know, you'd listen
very carefully figure out when their schedule was and find out when they were booked when they were unavailable.
And you'd invite them out to lunch that day. You knew they were gonna say no. So you'd have to spend any money,
but you would get credit for the ask. Now, I'm not suggesting you play the game that way. But I'm saying that's how |
learned that. Okay, so that’s why you know, this. | mean, again, not everybody wants to do this whole firearms thing,
and | understand that, but if you do, you know, we've empowered you to be able to go out and just give that away
and build goodwill. And this is a classic example of what happens so thanks for sharing that. Okay, guys, we're over.
I'm gonna let y'all go. Thanks a lot for a great session. We'll see you next time.

1:03:08
Thanks, guys. Merry Christmas. The holiday guys. Merry

Jarrid Cavanaugh 1:03:10
Christmas. Merry

Russ. 1:03:11

Christmas.
they've ever tried to hire anybody, for any reason, most business people I've ever known, most managers I've ever
known will tell you, almost without exception, finding good people is hard to do. Have you ever heard that? It’s hard
to find good people, you got to kiss a lot of frogs, right? You hear that all the time, when when you're going to buy an
income producing property, who is the single most important person so property manager, property managers,
property managers, who's the best qualified person, they know? Who could, who could evaluate and oversee that
team, experienced property manager. Okay, so that’s a huge value add that you personally have. Now, you don't
have to be a professional property manager like you are for anybody watching this. If you're an experienced income
property owner, if you've owned apartments or multifamily, you know, or single family homes, or even mobile homes,
anything where you've managed income and tenants in a niche, like residential or C class, or corporate, or whatever
it is, if your deal fits in that box, remind people because almost everybody knows how hard it is to find great people
how critically important that one function is, and how valuable your life experiences in making sure you know how to
pick great people. And you know how to hold them accountable to doing a good job, you know how to recognize a
problem before it gets too big to solve. And, and you know, and you're not afraid to go in there and switch things out.
If that’s what needs to be done, people are not going to be pulling the wool over your eyes running these assets,
right. And anybody that's ever been in business has had that employee that sits in the corner and doodles all day
and make makes you think for months, they're doing work while they're sucking down a paycheck. And then one day
you wake up and realize they haven't been productive and you have to fire him. You wonder, Well, how long have |
been hemorrhaging cash subsidizing this person's you know, art career? Right? Okay, so again, just look for ways try
to understand the way the person you're talking to sees the world. And then in to try to connect whatever value you
have to something they've seen that just popped in my head and set you saw it instinctively, which is great. | just
wanted to bring a little bit more clarity to it. So good job. Okay, so | think that’s enough on that up topic. Any of the
other three of you have a specific question that you came to you just all kind of just right away. If we can drop any

knowledge bombs, you got something Jared?

o Jarrid Cavanaugh 19:47

Yeah, | think so. | think it falls into sales and marketing. So, um, when you're putting together an offering, how do you
so it's a two part question a how do you approach someone who's experienced To be an advisor and official advisor
on your offering, and then how do you present that to your investors in a way that shows like, if | have set as my

advisor, I'm not solely reliant on step every step of the way, but he’s an advisor to me.

© Russ 20:17

Yeah, gotcha. Okay, so that’s a good question. | would say that there's two parts one is on the recruiting part of it

and selling, selling, selling, selling doesn’t really matter. If you're trying to sell them on being in on your advisory
board, then that's your sale. And a sale is all about meeting their needs, not yours. And so you have to kind of study
your prospect and try to figure out what is it that they might want or need, that you could provide them? Maybe they
want to be associated with it. Maybe there’s somebody else on your board that you have a relationship with, and
they would want to be there. Like for example, when Robert and | started doing the summit, it took us a while to get
Kiyosaki. But once we got Kiyosaki it was easy to get everybody else because everybody wanted to be with Kiyosaki.
They didn't come to hang out with the real estate guys. Now once they got to know us they did. And people will
come even when Kiyosaki isn't comment. But that's not how it started. Like we first met Peter Schiff, and we were
telling him all Robert Kiyosaki was well, | want to come great. And then we made that happen. Now Peter comes in
sometimes Robert doesn't, right. So so just understand selling, selling, selling, selling, and it's about understanding
the needs, wants, desires, goals and objectives, whether you know them overtly, or you have to anticipate them by
studying them, what they've written, what they've said, anything, you can learn about them, some talking to
somebody who knows them, that maybe can give you some insight. So that that’s number one. When | was putting
together a business model to create a mentoring program through CPAs, | subscribed to all the CPA journals. In fact,
to this day, | get emails because they think I'm an accountant, because the only people that subscribe to these things
website? Because if you ask for digital marketers, or web designers, okay, well, you know, | think they come up with
like, some type of package or how to design it. I'm curious what what you would see, Ross, as far as essential oils and
other testimonials want to be there. You've helped me with my part of my website, too. But seeing this as a good
refresher that | got to get back and updated. And I'm trying to, | guess my question is, what would be a good
reference point like and yeah,

Russ 49:11

so it's funny that you bring that up, because | am, you know, we we got our new website over the line. And |
delegated that | was | consulted on the front end, | made a video and said what was important to me and let the
team run with it. We did not have enough marketing input on it. And by the time it got down to the tactical level, the
people putting the site together did not understand how we made money, what our brand positioning was, and what
our values were in terms of how we go about our business. So | thought all of that was pretty clear on our current
Arcus check texture or former now former architecture, but it wasn't and so | wish | could show you the before and
after. But when you go to the landing page of the A new website. And the big banner that floated across the top said
nothing about us being a radio show. And it didn't really emphasize one of our most unassailable, unique selling
propositions, which is right here on the banner behind me. Since 1997, right? That eliminates a whole lot of
competition, because anybody that didn't start before 1997, can't say that. So we can so right away, you know, we
have that one of the C's, which is consistency, or in the five steps of brand building, from Secrets of successful
syndication, that that integrity slash consistency if you just been around if you keep showing up after a while, so we
were emphasizing that the other thing we weren't emphasizing is that we were a radio show. So you know, yes, we
have our old logo with our little radio, but you know, I've asked several millennial, do you know what that is? Have
you ever seen one of those? You know, what, like, this is right here. | don't know what is that like a video game
controller? Is that something that you is you set off bombs? What is that they haven't ever seen a transistor radio. So
| made sure we put investment talk radio. So it’s very clear, we are a talk show. It's about investments. And we're on
the radio, which makes us different than podcasters. Okay, so there's some things. So, you know, the, | guess the first
question is, when people land on your website, you have to explain to people quickly, who you are, and you need to
do it in a way that makes it not sound like you're just like everybody else in your space. So that's like, number one.
Number two is you have to ask yourself, what is it | want them to do? And most people, and | get it, because I've told
them, hey, look, everything we do is about getting an email, right? Get the email, get the email, get the email,
because you can talk to people personally, when you get the email, that's the key. And so on the homepage, it was
oh, and the other thing is we want people to share. So what they did on the homepage is as soon as you land on the
homepage, a pop up, just interrupted whatever you were looking at, which | despise, and said, Give us your email for
a free newsletter. Like that's like the weakest offering. | mean, the newsletters great if | do say so myself. But the fact
is, they don't know that everybody has a newsletter, | could share my you know, my mom's favorite, you know, cookie
dough recipe. | mean, nobody knows what I'm doing in my newsletter. Like | haven't added any value. | haven't
presented a value proposition. | haven't earned the right just like our million dollar middleman to ask you for your
email. So | said, Take that off, | don't want that. Then Then they had this banner that floated across the bottom that
said, share Facebook, blah, blah, blah. So what we did is we we land there, we don't tell them anything about who we
are what we do. There's no value proposition is confusing, and well, they're confused. We interrupt them and ask
them give me your email address and tell your friends tell him what? Tell him what that | don’t know who you are, |
don't know what you do. | mean, so | was kind about it. But | | tore it apart. And it’s 100% on me, because | did not do
a good job explaining to them. So now every week, we go through it page by page, and we're making updates. And
then when | feel like I've got it to where | think it’s pretty good. I'm going to send it out to the audience and ask them
to shred it. So, so for us it you know, the number one thing we want them to do is listen, because you guys know from
listening to this show, if you listen to the show, it’s not going to take us long to get your email address. Get this free
report, get that free report right sooner or later. If you're the type of person, we want to talk to an action oriented
person, we're going to get your email address. And so | said | don't care if if | want them to listen to the show. That's
our that's our best product. That's our most important thing. It's where we have the dropins | get to hear our voices is

so much better than text and pictures. It's powerful. Number two is. The other thing is is we do lead gen for our
group or the most important group, whichever one you think is important at the moment and you know, in the rest of
the people will get something out of it. But that’s not who you're talking to. You confuse the matter if you try and
have something for everybody, | think | mean, you can touch on little things, but keep the main thing, the main thing.
Alright, so that was a lot. Do you have any questions about that? Was | clear? You make sense? Okay. All right. Good,
good. Good. Okay. So anybody else? Question? Okay, so let's do this for fun. Since | did this little exercise for you
guys. It really is about positioning. You've heard Robert and | joke about the fact that | have this giant folder | call
stupid sales tricks. And so this is one that I'm going to call, it falls under the category of stupid sales tricks. And it is.
I'm calling it a bad brand building backfire. Okay, so I've said many times to people, when you get started, | say this
the secrets of successful syndication when you come into this business, building your brand, building your network is
something you can start right away and should start right away. And so and so that's what | what, that's what |
recommend you do. And yet, what does that really mean? | mean, that's nice to say from the front of the room. So
case studies are great. So this is a case study. So I'm gonna do my best to share my screen right now. And that would
be here. Okay, so you guys are seeing my screen right now. Nope, not yet. Hold on one moment, please. There we go
seeing it now. Somebody give me an amen or okay, | get a head nod from Jared. Okay. So this is how your phone
number tells your story and affects your brand positioning. This was really life case study. Now it's a completely
confidential because this is SMC | would never | don't even know this guy. And but I've met him and | don't want to
blow him up. It's this is not about humiliating him or making fun of him or disparaging in any way. What I’m doing is
just in order for you to see exactly the way this happened. I’m going to show it to you and that means his name, his
phone number, all that stuff’s exposed. So okay, this is a club, you're all under nondisclosure. I'm telling you right here.
This video, these comments. This picture, this whole story is 100% confidence. Okay, we good. This is what | call a
brand building backfire. And | didn't even put in a PowerPoint. I'm just going to scroll through it. So | ended up this
this shows up in my phone. | get this phone from a phone number. And it says you know, happy Saturday and it's
blah, blah blah. And I'm kind of looking at it and basically what | see is he’s looking for he says you met me, | don't
remember him. And he wants to talk about maybe doing a radio spot, maybe. So maybe | want to buy something
from you. But I'd like to be led with, | want to see about maybe being a guest on your show talk about some of our
products. So he led with his need, threw me a little bit of a bone. | mean, again, Words matter. So | know when you're
talking, it's hard, right? words come out of your mouth, the way they come out of your mouth. But if you actually
listen to yourself, when you start hearing language, like maybe and I'll try and stuff like that you realize, okay, so | feel
like we can discuss no super confident, he obviously didn't make a good impression on me. But somehow he
managed to get my phone number. Anyway, so he called so | don't know that much about him. And I'm not sure this
is his name, because you know, what happens with voice to text. So the thing that | was sure of was his phone
number. So | didn't even listen to the message. And normally what | do when people want to be on the show, is | will
do a very cursory check to see if | think they there's any interest if | think there's a possibility. And here, this is vague
enough, | don't know. So I’m open minded. He says he's got product, maybe he wants to buy an ad spot. Okay, well,
then maybe maybe we can do some business. Normally, | give this to a virtual assistant. If you look at the date, this
was three weeks after we had had the memorial service for my wife, | was in no mood to call anybody back. So |
didn't, it’s just been sitting in my phone forever. And here we are at the end of the year, and I'm trying to clean my
slate before the clock rolls over. And | see this message just this morning. And | went, huh? Okay, so let's let's check
this guy out. So normally give this to a VA, but | didn't. So this thing, first thing | did. And you should do this on
yourself, whatever phone number you are using to hold yourself out to the world, you need to do a search on it.
Because when you call somebody and your caller ID pops up, and they don't know who you are before they decide if
they're gonna call you back no matter what you said. If they're like me, they don't want to get into a conversation
with somebody they don't want to talk to and the only identifier | have is a phone number. | look it up. | don't know if
you're, you know, spammer or pollster, whatever, you know, so | look it up. So | looked it up and | found this domain
rental ze rentals DFW like okay, so sounds like it's real estate. DFW that makes sense. Markets. This is a Facebook
page with the same phone number. And this is ecommerce website. |'m like, huh, and then Joshua Buys Houses
another so it’s two Facebook pages with the same phone number two different businesses. It appears Joshua Buys
Houses in markets. So I'm like not quite sure what's going on. So | keep going. And then | see million dollar
middleman like million dollar middleman gee, that's interesting, same phone number. And then | go here and | see
epic national Realty, | see a name and phone number and here and one other place here. | see on the Facebook

pages and website pages a different spelling of the name that | had in my voice to text so now have accurate
_JO

JO

that if it's not exactly, you know, apples to apples that you've justified, whatever additional services you're getting, for
whatever it is, you know, maybe they're not getting, or maybe you can find a way to make your deal even better. And
that's great. So those are the kind of the things you need to consider. That's it from my perspective, Sep. | know
you've been around for a long time you have anything you want to throw in on that.

06:56

| didn't hear the first part, so | won't be qualified. I'm sorry.

Russ 06:58

Okay, no worries, that's fine. | was just kind of, you know, trying to avoid a monologue here.

07:06

Let me let me follow up then. So that's a key point, | had been been deep enough into it yet to realize he wasn't
syndicating them, himself. So that is a value add right there. If you want to be a passive investor, here’s the way you
can do that. Or you can go buy one yourself. And now you've hired a property management manager.

Russ 07:30

So go and there's more to a John two, there's more to it, because because when you buy a four Plex, or whatever
you're buying, then 100% of the occupancy and vacancy and expenses and capital risk is on you. If you were to put
together a group of 10, and you were to pool the rents into one pool, then you know, one guy might have a problem
or you know, one unit may have a vacancy or some turnover expenses, extraordinary. But that gets diluted across all.
So you're sharing both risks and rewards. And then of course, you have a professional manager you that's in the mix.
And so you know, there's definitely a way to position but but from a sales and marketing point of view in the main
point, and | talked about this in belief, the sales training, | might say it in secrets of successful syndication. Yeah, | do.
Because | say assume the position and don't wiggle, persuasion is about positioning. And positioning is, you know,
selling is about Persuasion. Persuasion is about positioning. So if you're going to be persuasive, it's not what you say.
It's how much weight there is behind your brand, when you say it, and | give the example of the homeless guy coming
in to the room and sayings, you know, sell gold and buy stocks. And Warren Buffett coming in and saying that, right?
There's same words, but very different positioning. So the messenger matters. That’s why, you know, you look at first
we're in political theater to the extreme right now. And when somebody comes out with a message, they can't rebut,
they go after the messenger, they tried to discredit the message by attacking the messenger. To me, that's usually a
green light, | mean, a red light or a red flag that, you know, whoever's on the other side of it doesn't have a valid
argument. So they have to, they have to get go personal. That's not always the case. But you know, it could just be
laziness. But the point is, is you want to make sure that you're always building your positioning, and you want to be
aware of the other people who are, who are on the landscape. Right. You know, sometimes we get so focused on
ourselves on our own brand, we forget what else is going on around us. So you know, when | read Rick Victor's
response, you know, | don't normally chime in on there because | do these. If | get a chance, | will, but | hate typing. |
have a lot of typing in my life as it is. So | try to avoid doing any more than it's necessary. any extracurricular typing.
But But with that said, you know, | recognized right away that Victor was looking at the situation through the eyes of
somebody who made an assumption that the person making the offering was also a syndicator themselves. And in
this case, | knew that that wasn't true. So I'm really glad you brought it up. Now that | think about it. Now you had a
follow up thing that you wanted to say
