@ Russ 53:39

Yeah, | think what you're going to find out is one of the one of the most important skill sets you have as a
business person, and especially in this business, is the great resource of building a great advisory team.
And then quarterbacking that team, you know, when you get on a call with me, and I'm running a strategy
session with the team, Kevin knows, because he's been in those right? | mean, you have to be in a huddle
with somebody that is is really leading really, really pulling out from everybody getting the dialogue,
framing what the questions are. That's a skill set. | didn't start out life with that skill set. And I'm still
developing, but I'd say I'm pretty good at it. And it's super, super valuable. | mean, this is a business where
you're just constantly making deals. And big part of your deals are how you are structuring what you're
doing in order to attract capital right now you guys are out there raising 50,000 $100,000 Here and there.
When you start dealing with really high net worth people that have complex situations and they can stroke
you a big check the level that you need to play at or that you have the opportunity to play at in order to
really bring value to them is much higher. But if you succeed it that these guys have no other people just
like themselves, they all hang out together. And you know you only have have to solve one problem for
one guy and make him your raving fan. And because of who they are, they're all highly influential in their,
in their communities. And so it does take some time. It's a lot of work. And the reason we're putting the
time and effort into this is because this is a nuance of syndicating that most syndicators don't have don't
know about don't think about. And | would venture to say that most syndication programs don't bother to
teach or talk about, because it's just not that fun. It's just not that sexy, but it's a huge competitive
advantage. Once you get it down. | think you can, you can probably figure that out, because it doesn't take
much of a conversation with a high net worth person to find out where the holes are in their program. The
more you learn about this, most people are not structured properly. If Kevin didn't tell you, the vast
majority of people, the way people get structured properly is their their their structured improperly, they
don't know it, something bad happens, they call a guy like Kevin to try to fix it. Kevin maybe can help them
or maybe not. And maybe all they get out of the whole experience is the lesson and then they go forward
better structured, that's what happened to me. | was not structured well. And | went to work on structuring
myself better. And I'm in the process of restructuring everything again, to go to the next level. So Kevin, I'll
give you the last word, because we're just over time you got anything you want to say to the folks before
we we depart?

© Kevin Day 56:23

No, I'm glad that you're all here and taking a proactive position in your lives and your your business
planning. This is excellent. And again, if you've had a great year, you want to expense things on this end of
the year. And | look forward to the meeting with Mike pine and Anton to have a coordinated effort. So there
isn't any vacuums of holes in our discussion so we can cover.

© Russ 56:59

Yeah, you want to make sure you tighten up all those gaps in the crevices that'll get you Okay, so big
virtual hand for Kevin Day. Kevin, thank you for your time today and your your contribution and your
support of the program. We really appreciate you if we don't talk to you. Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays
and all that stuff. And we'll we'll be talking again soon as soon as we get that next session together. All
right. Thanks, everybody. Thank you. Thank you
Yep, it would be Kevin, Mike pine. And me. And who else say Anton? Because it's commercial?

© Adam 26:01

Do you want me to put all of those people on the email?

@ Russ 26:03

Nope, just put it on membership in me, and I'll make it happen. | just have to explain to them what | want.
And we'll we'll figure it out. Sounds good. Okay, great. Thank you, sir. Okay, all right. So anybody else on
the call? Got a question for Mr. Kevin Day? Don't be shy. Okay, well, they're thinking about that, Kevin, I'm
going to put you on the spot a little bit. So here we are at the end of the year, and we've got 30 days,
approximately, you know, with holiday to make end of year moves. And | don't Know what the world looks
like from an estate planning perspective going forward. | don't know if there's any outstanding legislation
hanging out there with regard to asset protection, we should be aware of or anything that you're seeing in
your practice working with your clients, where they're trying to make some end of year tax moves. You
know, we're not asking for specific investment advice. But is there anything you can think of that people
should be thinking of, as we're closing out? 2021, looking at 22?

© Kevin Day 27:07

Well, the biggest thing is, in the asset protection arena, or estate planning arena is, you know, tax write
offs. Estate planning is a 50% tax write off lawsuit protection is a business expense. So it's a 100% write
off. So you know, if somebody is doing planning that they're going to do, and they've had a big year, they
would want to do it this side of the year instead of after January 1. There are some things in the works.
regarding privacy, the the law is unclear. And we're trying to get

@ Russ 27:52

the corporate Transparency Act. Yes. Yeah. Why don't you explain to everybody what that is first? And
then and then. Yeah, talk about the update.

© Kevin Day 28:01

Corporate Transparency Act is where these oligarchs, and wealthy people from around the world
particularly are, are buying, you know, $14 million mansions through companies. And usually, they're
already on a list for malfeasance internationally. So they're essentially hiding money into the United
States. So they're, they're trying to close and they have been trying to close this gap for about 1520 years,
and they finally wrote an act related to beneficial ownership. So the question is, how is that going to relate
to our Wyoming and Nevada companies? And then secondly, does it relate to trusts at all, because trusts
are not a corporate form? They are, you know, common law. So we're trying to look at the legislative, it.
It's just happened. And we don't know. | don't think that I'm taking the position until otherwise informed
that it doesn't relate to trust. And I'm trying to figure out who has the legal responsibility? Is it the CPA, or
the lawyers that have to do the reporting on companies?
© Russ 50:21

Well, that's, | mean, it's like, it's definitely picking your poison. That's a tax question. Again, | wouldn't be
making those decisions unless | had both. Kevin, my tax guy and my entity guy on the call at the same
time, and and, and paddling back and forth, trying to figure out what what's going to be because the tax
guy is going to give you advice related to tax, and that's it. And they're not going to be thinking much
outside the box, especially with creative entity structure. And then the asset protection guy can't give you
tax advice. But my experience has been the asset protection, estate planning people have good working
knowledge of tax like | do, we can't get into the weeds, we have to we always have to vet it with a tax
person. But, you know, with with all due respect to tax people there, and | would accept Tom wheelwright
from the collection, they're largely the most unimaginative people I've ever met. Right? They just they
don't have much imagination. If you try to be creative. Everybody, when you try to get creative is going to
say no, because it protects them. They don't need a claim, they don't need a problem. They're gonna say
no, getting a group of people that are looking for ways to say yes, and are willing to collaborate to find you
the how, when you're given the initial two or three roadblocks, that's gold, whatever it takes for you to
assemble that team and treat them well do it. Because they'll make you a ton of money.

© Adam 51:45

Okay, um, okay, | guess | need to either text Kevin, would you prefer a call you or Michelle, if I'm dealing
with a structure,

© Kevin Day 51:55

call Michelle. But you can also say, Hey, | just was meeting with Kevin, and blah, blah, blah. And I'm always
available, she can bring me in even if I'm traveling.

© Adam 52:10

| just feel like, sorry, go ahead.

® Kevin Day 52:13

Yeah, the other thing and keeping things streamline, that has a positive tax effect, would be intellectual
property being owned out of California, in a separated asset, and then selling it under an installment note
into California to wait and move profits pre expense pre tax out of California. And that'll be a good
discussion. When we have that next meeting with Mike pine and Anton, we have a lot of people that are
doing that successfully. Okay. And you have intellectual property, your, your customer list your for your
portfolio, portfolio, or performers, all of those things we can create and put that under the the asset
protection trust, and then license it or installment sale it back into California, at a very premium price.
We're capitalists, there's nothing that says you have to make a great that you get the short end of the
stick and have this shuttle money out of California.

© Ken Hosac 53:31

| think Stacy Gray was talking about how she did that with her company.
JO

JO

40:46

So real quick to follow up on that question. So | have a couple of Wyoming LLC is currently that | hold
properties in, but | live in California, so | still have to register another LLC in California, which everybody
can see who | am from that is, is it even worth having a Wyoming LLC?

Kevin Day 41:06

Well, one, it depends on how that's structured. Where are the real properties in California, they are in
California? Well, because of fair Faith and Credit between the state, which is a US constitutional level, it
allows you to do form companies or trust in other states. And they have to accept it the way it comes.
Now, Wyoming does not require a manager to be named, but they do allow nominees were Nevada, you
have to have a manager named but you can hire nominees. So if you have a sister with a different last
name, or some other trusted friend, that would we can provide you commercial ones, but they're going to
be 700 bucks a year, we have a privacy Trust, which is 100 $1,500. So it's more expensive, but it doesn't,
you don't have to pay anything every single year, then we get a name in the public record, then we
register it in California doing business in California. And now your name is not in the public record. You're
still promising to pay taxes on it. And that's all the FTB cares about. But you still get privacy over it. Okay,
okay to do that with a privacy trust.

42:38
Okay. Thank you. Sorry,

Russ 42:44

I'm there trying to MC with my microphone off.

Kevin Day 42:47

Since we have a little law and this, it was so great. It's so great seeing so many people that were at Front
Sight. Had a great time. And | love Adam love meeting your dad as well, Kevin, there's so many of us that
were on the same. We | lucked out at having you guys in my group, since we were in about four or five
different training areas.

Russ 43:17

Yeah, it was a great time, we're going to do it again in March. And this is you know, for those of you who
either were there or wanted to be there or know what we're talking about, it's, it's an opportunity for you
to just create a mixer for people that were you get a chance to get together and become friends and do
something that's fun. And it's not everybody's cup of tea. But for people who like it, they really like it. The
training is excellent. And the opportunity right now and we're going to be sending this out shortly but you
can do a Christmas promotion. So if you've got clients or property managers or people that you would like
to say hey, my gift to you is a free four day handgun training class and a gun rental $2,700 value. All you
got to do is just, you Know, pay to get there pay for your accommodations and ammo. You can get that
and we can set you up to do that. And as we've said many times the offer is just as good if you offer it to
somebody and they go you know, no thanks I'm not interested but thanks for thinking of me well then you
get credit for thanks for thinking of me. If somebody says well | hate you because you you're promoting
guns Well | think you probably want to know that about them right away if you're cool with the guns and
they're not you you want to know it is a polarizing issue. Robert and | were careful about whether or not
we wanted to expose it to people but | kind of trial balloon did a little bit | got so much uptake | was like
wow, everybody's kind of into this seemed like the demographic we attract is largely largely fine with it. So
just want you to know that that's available to you. It's kind of a perk and been in the program and we're
going out March 18 to the 22nd. So if you're interested in that, just let membership know and they'll they'll
help you get set up. Okay, so anything else on the topic at hand? We're here to pick Kevin's brain. He's not
charging anybody except maybe me. And and he's here to answer your questions. So if you haven't seen
the session that we did, in the asset protection for syndicators, go watch that, and then start, then the
next step after that is to after you've seen it, is to sign up for risk audit, which is free with Kevin's firm. And
you can get information on that by sending an email to risk audit at real estate guys radio.com. But don't
do it before you've watched the session. And then you have these sessions, probably once a month,
maybe once every other month, it just depends where, you know, Kevin will come on and answer any
questions you have free of charge. And so we can go there. Since we do have a little, little bit of extra
time. | think that if nobody else has an additional question. And Adam, if you're still on the call, you said
you wanted to go a little bit deeper, why don't we just go ahead and do that since you're, you're here, and
nobody else has a question.

© Adam 45:59

JO

I'm still here. Um, yeah, | guess I'm | understand the the value of the management company and to be
able to pull, you know, a management fee out of out of the deal. If, and, and so on the syndication that
we're doing, we're doing a 15% preferred return, and then a 9010 split. So would that 10% Split come to
the management company?

Russ 46:22

No, it goes to your holding company. So there's two parts, there's your there's your fee for service, your
active income, and you want to keep that at a minimum because you're gonna pay self employment tax on
it. Right. So your, your goal is to have your your C entity, your management company kind of be a pass
through entity, it collects enough fees to pay all the expenses, but never produce a profit. And you're
gonna take, you're gonna take a modest salary for doing that. And do that strategically take the salary
based on any personal borrowing, you want to do work with your mortgage person, if you're going to be
doing residential one to four, you have any personal lending you want to do, you want to make sure that
you have documental income, that's where it's going to come from, but you only want to have enough to
qualify for whatever loan you're doing. Because anything above that you're going to pay that 15.2 or
whatever it is percent self employment tax, the carry, if you will, your profit sharing is going to come to
yOu aS passive income through your holding company. And Kevin, feel free to step in and correct me if I've
spoken in any way.

47:23

No, | totally agree. Yeah, that makes
out of the deal, right? That when on that diagram you did the other night Russ where you have a, you
know, a management company, and

Russ 12:56

| like to | like to make the management a C Company. And that way you get it still, it's less likely to be
audited for routine business expenses than if you do it as a pass through. Or you do it as God forbid, a
Schedule C, right. So it just shows up as its own its own entity. And then and you create family benefit. |
mean not to you create health benefit, medical reimbursement, educational, you pay for the car, you
there's no out of pocket, you know, complete, there's so many things you can do. Now, if you have
employees, now you have to be careful, because anything you offer yourself as an employee of that
company has to be offered to everybody else. But there's ways to structure it. So you have one structure
for kind of you and one structure for everybody else. And that that's beyond the purview of this because
that really gets more into the tax side of things. But yeah, | like to have the management company be a C
most of the time.

© Adam 13:52

 

Okay. At some point go into more detail on that. But you guys totally answered my question. | appreciate
that.

Russ 13:58

Yeah, | think bring bring that up on the Mike Pine call because really, from a structuring point of view, from
an asset protection point of view, correct me if I'm wrong, Kevin, a C or an S or disregarded doesn't really
make any difference. It's the corporate formalities and the fact that it's a separate entity, and that you as
an individual aren't responsible for your acts, as long as they're done in good faith as an officer or director
or an employee of a of an entity. Tax has nothing to do with it.

Ken Hosac 14:29

No, | don't pop in when you get a chance to.

Russ 14:33

So okay, yeah, go ahead, Ken. Yeah, so

© Ken Hosac 14:35

| had submitted a couple questions this morning. They may not have showed up, but not Yeah, okay. Yeah,
| had. So I've, you know, | listened to the presentation, the syndication Summit. In Dallas, | listened to the
webinar, and then I've done a consult with Michelle. And similar to Adam, my biggest confusion was what
makes more sense between, you know, having let's say you have an irrevocable trust that owns a

Wyoming llc. The difference between having that Wyoming LLC owned the entities versus equity strip. And
© Ken Hosac 19:44

 

Oo
()

Yeah, okay, that then this is the thing it's it's been the hardest for me to mentally get my mind around it,
but it's also the beauty and the power of the whole arrangement. So | love it. And then my final follow on
question, and then you can delete my thing in the chat. How do lenders deal with that? So if | have, you

know, and | have like six LLCs, with properties and land, stuff like that. And some of them have personal

guarantees. How do the lenders treat that? | mean, do | disclose this to the lender? | kind of have a good
partner. So,

Kevin Day 20:20

yeah, yeah, you don't have to disclose to them. The law generally states that they can't hold up your
equitable growth, they have their pound of flesh they've negotiated, it's usually 80%. And if you have a
million dollar property, and they have, you know, a lien against 80% of it, but then the values change to
200 billion, they don't have control of that, that's your equity. So they're always in first position. So they're
not, you don't have a notice requirement to them. We're not changing ownership. So it's not a due on sale
clause trigger, by putting second or third or 4/4 liens on it. So we want to get that equity soaked up so
that, in fact, we're protecting their equity by putting more cushion in it, that a creditor can't get to. It's a
friendly lien. So if you need more financed money, we can pull the liens on and off as we wish. So we
haven't had any problem there. There used to be a thing called subordination, which was banking 101. But
after the whole real estate debacle 2008 through 15, which | think was bank caused one of the major
causes. Most people, even if they have really good relationships with the banker, they don't want to go Oh,
you'll see golden mountain lending has a lien second to you. They're willing to subordinate. They don't
want to rationale with some employee that's just ticking boxes. So we now pull them off. We used to do
subordination. But now we pull them off, get the new loan, and then throw it back on.

Ken Hosac 22:21

Okay, thank you that answer my question.

22:22
| appreciate him. Certainly, Ken. Hey, and

Russ 22:25

Ken, I'm going to encourage you to bring that same question to the Ask the lender with Anton and get get
his take on it. Because you know, everything's a contract. So if the lenders are making you a loan, and you
are signing, saying that you're not going to put it on additional financing, you know, you may have to
negotiate in that a carve out and explain to them what you're doing. They may be fine with it. But let's ask
him, because he's probably dealt with it a lot more than me or Kevin, from the lenders perspective,
certainly, than | have. Okay.
the conditions in the experience that | want to have based on externals that | don't have any control over.
So it may not be a perfect analogy, but you know, hopefully that kind of makes sense. So before we move
on from that,

© Kevin Day 09:34

it is a good analogy because what Adam you have is a structure that can lawsuit protect your general
partnership interest and other things. It should stay in your own name. And it's convertible so we can move
things into it when the season changes. And it doesn't have any tax consequences. We make sure that the
structure is is They're disregarded entities. So we can move things in and out without any tax
consequences.

© Russ 10:05

And then you're going to have another structure, you're going to have another structure that is going to
have that are going to have their own tax years offsetting tax years. And so you end up with this collection
of entities, not not because you're in the habit of collecting entities, but because each one serves a
purpose. And you have to know when you put it in your overall plan, what purpose it serves, why is it there
and how and when do | use it. The more tools you have in your toolbox, the more flexibility you have as
the externals that you have no control over opportunities come up or challenges, you can move things
around. But the key is like anything, you have to know how to operate it, you have to know like, for
example, he just disregarded entities, which means you can move things around without tax
consequences, because they're disregarded for tax purposes, everything rolls through to the ultimate
owner. But other entities if you're using entities with offsetting tax years, so that you can have an expense
in one entity and an income in another entity. And I'll give you an example, the way this works, if | have an
entity whose tax year ends March 31, and another entity whose tax year ends June 30, then on March 30, |
can take my income, and | can put a big expense in the entity that is the march 31 entity and close out the
year with a big expense or even a big loss. And I can take that what would have been the income and just
push it into the entity and buy myself another 90 days before | have to pay the tax. And theoretically, |
could kick that count down the road quite a while. But what | lose is is that when | moving assets around,
somebody is realizing a gain, somebody's realizing a loss. And so that's neither mine or Kevin's expertise
will none of this is my expertise. I'm a generalist in every sense of the word. But that's where you have to
get your your CPA involved in that's where the strategy teams come into play, because you have to
consider all of it. Each advisor is going to look at it mostly through their primary area of expertise. And a
lawyer is always going to disavow himself of tax advice, he can tell you, Hey, this is the way | understand it
works. But check with your CPA, your CPA is gonna say | can't give you legal advice. But here's how it
works. From a tax point of view, the thing is, you have to figure out how to reconcile both those sides.
That's why, you know, | had to learn so much about so many different things because | was the guy in the
middle trying to put it all together. And that's the hardest thing to do. But I'll tell you, once you once you
master it, you can take that to your clients, you'll actually have a big value add that you can bring to them.
Yeah. Is it? Was it you Adam or somebody else? Yeah,

© Adam 12:34

that was me. | was just saying, Yeah, that makes sense. | appreciate that. The only other kind of question |
have, but it's, it could be a little specific to my deal. So | can | can meet with you later come up. But the
you, you talked about the management portion, and it's mainly to feed equity, equity or management fees
about doing an oil syndication Adam, I'm gonna let you get centered, and then I'll have you come on and
actually ask your question. But the crossover now Is where your business structure has to interact with the
the actual doing of the business. And in our business, we're in the business of syndicating, which is largely
under the purview of syndication or securities law. And so you can have your securities attorney,
unfortunately, if you're working with Mauricio, he has a good understanding of entity structuring and
planning because he used to do that as part of his practice. But there's going to be an interaction. And so
sometimes there's things you've got to do that you're going to make decisions that are based on business.
And sometimes you're going to be making decisions that are going to be based on optimal privacy, optimal
asset protection, optimal tax. And so if there, I'll say this, and Kevin may have a different opinion, but in
my experience, you can't have 100% on all fronts. You're typically going to compromise something in
order to get something else, even if that compromising is just, it's a pain in the butt to manage, right?
Because it's just have to be really structured and disciplined and have good procedures and
documentation. And then you have expensive administration to to keep it all together. But But | do think
that the liability protection is probably, and to a degree, | think privacy, your personal assets from your
what you do with your syndication business, are going to be important. So. So Kevin, before we talked to
Adam, and let him ask his question, and then we'll open it up to everybody else. Do you have anything you
want to say about anything that | just rambled on about?

© Kevin Day 03:39

Yeah, no, that's exactly there's always countervailing issues.. The tax issue versus lawsuit protection. A
higher value asset versus a high risk venture, and what what where do you put things and so things like
cash and portfolio are easy. Intellectual property is easy, you know, you get that into the lawsuit protection
structure. But one of the questions we'll be dealing with later and actually Adams question goes to that
very thing. | believe it's going to be a tax versus asset protection issue.

@ Russ 04:21

So Adam is showing off to everybody that he lives in a place with wonderful weather. And so we're all
being good. Actually, I'm not super jealous because

© Adam 04:29

I'm in Phoenix where you are Ross I'm in Phoenix. I'm in Scottsdale at IMM.

© Russ 04:34

Well, si | that's right that it's this week. | was planning on going to that Yes. Now you know why | love living
here so much. Beautiful out there. It's beautiful year round. You know, the gets a little hot and a little cold
at the extremes, but yet very few days that are intolerable. So anyway, Adam, do you remember your
question you want to ask Do you want me to read it for you?

© Adam 04:55

| roughly remember it basically we have a holding company that wil will be the general partner in a limited
partnership for and the limited partnership will be what's doing the syndication. And that's for being able
© Russ 29:18

So Kevin, you just said something that | think is important for everybody to understand. And you just said
it in passing. And yet, I've spent a lot of time considering about, you know, what is freedom? And how does
the world work? And, and | think one of the things that we're finding is, is that the Constitution set us up
with unalienable rights. In other words, there's things that cannot be taken away from us because
according to our founders, they were given to us by God. And then things for which you have to obtain a
license, things for which you have to ask permission. A free person doesn't have to ask permission. A free
person does what he wants. So there are aspects of our life where we are supposed to be free, and there's
aspects of our life where we need To ask permission, what a lot of people don't understand when it comes
to entity structuring, this is entity 101. This is again, in the concept of made distech, which is a book |
recommend to all syndicators to read that you have a basis of knowledge, it's called the curse of
knowledge. And you, you start from a basis of understanding that's over the head of your audience. And so
you say something in passing, like the difference between common law and corporate structure. And, and
I'm sure, I'm guessing some of you didn't catch it, because | know there was a time in my life where |
didn't. And so | just want to make sure that you understand why this is so important and why it's important
to the business we're in. We're in the business of, of forming relationships through contracts the right to
contract or form a trust, when two people come together and agree, and they trust each other. And they
that that is an unalienable right, under the way the common law works. In other words, you don't have to
have government permission. That's why, you know, you don't, you can form a contract with someone and
you don't have to go apply for a license or asking permission, nobody has to approve that contract to
private parties can get together, execute a contract and have an agreement. Hey, Kevin, I'm going to give
you possession of my car, and you can hold my car for 30 days and drive it and do what you want.

Because I've agreed to it in exchange for you know, whatever, you Know, you're going to set up my state
plan. And he says, Okay, that's great. We signed a contract, no license, no permission, no vetting, nothing
required to people that's contract law. When | go to form a corporation, | am now a creature | have | exist
at the at the pleasure, if you will of the state, the state has given me a license or given me permission to
form an entity. And the thing is, anytime you have to ask somebody for permission, you're subordinated to
them and you have certain regulations or rules you have to follow. And so the fundamental difference
between a trust and a corporate entity is that one is formed under common law, your your unalienable
right to contract and one is formed as a privilege that is granted to you through the state. And so I'm a big
proponent of using trusts when you can, because it disempowers the state and empowers the individual.
And there are a lot of protections that are built for you that are much harder for the government to bother
you with in the trust. So trusts are very powerful tools. Part of the reason you never hear that much about
them. You know, a lot of people think living trusts, you know, | hear these advertisements that drive me
nuts, you know, your assets aren't protected, get a living trust. I'm here to tell you, your living trust does
not protect your assets. It protects you from probate, and that's about it. But other than that, not so much.
So Kevin, | don't know if you want to illuminate that a little bit. But | just think that that's such an important
fundamental thing. Because if you don't understand that, then you don't understand how to take back your
freedom, because you don't even understand how the system works.

é& Kevin Day 33:02

Yeah, corporations LLCs, Limited Partnerships have to be registered and approved, as you just said, Russ,
by the state. And they, you know, check the name, decide whether you can do it, whether there's a
conflict. And you have to give them all this information before they give that approval. And then you have
to play the game. You have to do all the paperwork annually. You have to give the annual registration

aa = aa. aX
JO

RUSS 33:32

and pay your fees.

Kevin Day 33:33

Don't forget that. So their money not about the money. The money Exactly. And there isn't that
component to trust. So they're downplayed.

Russ 33:46

Anyway, so trust are powerful. So just to understand the difference in common law and what a corporation
corporate is, corporation is a creature and you exist by privilege at the good pleasure of the state. A
contract is your unalienable right to form an association. That's what the First Amendment is all about.
Okay, all right. So Kevin Wrigley, you're new to the party. Did you have a question for Mr. day since you
just showed up? Not currently. Thank you. Okay. Well, we had a pretty good session, you're gonna want to
go back and watch us in the recording? Because | have a question. So. Okay, go ahead. Yeah.

34:19

So So Kevin, I, the whole lean thing about you know, stripping equity. When you put a lien on the property
who's actually putting the lien you personally already said, no need to do that

Kevin Day 34:31

your own straight your own structure. You don't want to do it yourself. We create a structure usually in
Wyoming or Nevada, where we have privacy. So your name isn't in the public record, the owner is not in
public record in those states. So the as an example, whatever you would name the company, let's call it
golden mountain lending. So Bank of America is on first. golden mountain lending is on second. It's a
friendly lien We make sure that there's proper consideration. So can withstand court scrutiny if you were
sued. But the main aim is to let a lawyer that's looking to sue you to know that there isn't an asset there.
They'll do a big investigation. And look that Oh, Bank of America is on first golden mountain, you know,
funding or lending is on second. There's no equity there contingency fee attorneys go away. Hourly
lawyers will still fire across the bow. But they want to get out fairly quickly. Because they'll ultimately, you
know, if they run $100,000 lawsuit, and at that point, the same picture in the public record shows that you
had no assets or no equity. They'll get a malpractice lawsuit. So they want to settle out early, they'll still
take some money from the client, but it's a very power. We've been doing it since 1992. And we've had
some real incidences with our clients and better yet, we've had things that should have been lawsuits that
our clients have said, Yes, | know lawyers looking after me. | Know what the event is. And they never get
even served. Those are glory stories, but they happen just about every year where somebody is telling us
those stories.

Russ 36:31

And the thing is, | think that the the ideal scenario, correct me if I'm wrong, Kevin is that if you have any
revocable trust is the owner of the lien. In other words, the near revocable trust, asset protection trust is
holding the lien on the property. If you get called in for an order of examination, you've lost a judgment.
Audio December-2021-Ask-the-Mentors-Q&A-
Call-on-Asset-and-Es...
@ Thu, 12/2 8:59AM @57:26

syndication, kevin, structure, entity, question, people, equity, tax, holding, assets, company, trust, business,

asset protection, lien, adam, irrevocable trust, deal, liability, put

SPEAKERS

Russ, Kevin Day, Adam, Ken Hosac

@ Russ 00:01

Okay syndication mentoring club. It is the first day of December 2021. And we're here for our first ask the
mentors call for the month and it happens to be kicking off with asset protection and entity structuring
with our good friend and mentor attorney Kevin Day. Hey, Kevin. You have to unmute yourself to say hello
to everybody.

00:23
Hello. Yes, | it's good to start off the

jo

@ Russ 00:28

| feel like that background you might have like some harem or something here dancing in the front, we're
off camera where we can't see you. So, uh, so let's see, we've got there's both Ben and Adam Adam pen.
Are you on? Adams? Not on either. Okay, So we're gonna Jump into these questions. But before we do that,
for those of you that are actually on the call right now, do you have any questions? Have you had a chance
to go through the asset protection for syndicators that we the recording that Adam and | did. And if you
haven't, if you're watching this after the fact, | encourage you to do that, because there was some really
good information in there. But this is there's two parts to having Kevin on. And things we want to talk

about in this particular Aska mentors. One is, of course, setting up your own structure to make sure that
you're you've insulated your assets you've built up to this point, the assets that you're going to build in the
future. Second, is making sure that you have a business structure set up properly. So that when you're out
there conducting your business, you know exactly where your liabilities are, where to put your insurances,
your your structure is the skeleton, if you will, that you overlay your accounting system on and all of your
policies and procedures. Can't observe corporate formalities until you have those entities in place. You
can't set up the bookkeeping and all of that stuff and to have those entities in place. So those are the two
things your own asset protection and then your business structure. hen it's going to kind of cross over a
little bit. And this is | think, now that | see that Adam has joined the call, you know, Adams question is
© Adam 47:26

sense. Adam? It does. So does the management company. Is it one management company to for all deals
or that one? Yes.

@ Russ 47:35

Yes. That is your syndication business. Okay. Yeah, your syndication business is two parts, it's your
management company, and it's your holding company, your holding company is going to share all of your
passive, you're going to be a limited member of LP or a limited member, in in your structures in your deals,
that's where you're going to hold your equity, your profit share, you're going to pull your fees into your
management company, and that's where you're active. So you have active and passive. And that is your
whole company. Every deal you do is managed by the same manager. And every all the assets you have
are held by your same holding company, and your holding company is going to be owned by your asset
protection trust. Or probably Yeah, buy your asset protection trust. That's right.

© Adam 48:24

Okay. And | think that's where | keep getting stuck in, | need to | need to create the mental separation,
that the deal I'm doing right now is not that standard structure, because my holding company will not be
owned by my asset protection for us, right? Isn't that what we started this meeting saying?

@ Russ 48:38

Yeah, so then in that case, you may form for this particular deal, you may decide to form a holding
company specific to this and have a different holding company for your other deals. Okay, now and now
once you have once you have the holding company, especially if you form it in a low tax jurisdiction, now
you're in California, so you got to be careful because California is | mean, they're they're, they're
relentless. So if you are a manager on any entity anywhere, even if it doesn't own any assets, or do any
business in California, California wants their their money. So you're going to have to work with Kevin's
team or whoever you're working with your tax people to, to make sure that if you made there may be a
way for you to put a management company in place that you provide consulting to, so that you effectively
are distanced from being the manager of the company where the money really is. And that way you just
paying your you know, the minimal amount. Does that make sense? So in other words, you got Adam Penn
management consulting, and then you're providing consulting to the company that is a a Wyoming or
Nevada probably Wyoming management company. Now you have a low cost entity in a privacy
jurisdiction, that is owning the doing whatever needs to be done. But but that work the way oming
company isn't you're not considered the manager of it because you're just a consulting company.

© Adam 50:05

Okay, and does a holding company jurisdiction matter a lot? Because for this oil deal we did one we have a
holding company is based out of New York, because that's where Kirk said, Pick where me or Phil live, and
we didn't want California. So we picked New York.
| and I, this is the confusion. I've had all three seminars and this is the first time I've actually had that
clarified. It sounds like if I'm using a syndication for my real estate development project, then | would want
to take advantage of equity stripping so that | my property LLC for that real estate development, | have
complete control of | can bring in other GPS if | need to not complicate it. And then when the project's
over, if it's a buy and hold, I'm not sure | can take that property LLC and put it into a Wyoming LLC, if |
have other general partners who are participating. So I'm assuming that | would continue to do the equity
stripping or what's your thoughts on that?

© Kevin Day 15:47

Well, the the equity stripping, especially with syndication syndicators, typically with real estate
investments, the real estate holding company, or companies usually are owned by you, or through a living
trust, that's you. Because the properties have their own high liability. And just in the last couple of years,
we've had clients that have had apartment buildings where there's been electrocution, there's been death
that was related to co2, alleged failure. We've had a fire with clients just in the last year and a half. And so
those are significant. And presuming they can't pierce the corporate veil, they're still going to lose that
apartment building, unless we have equity stripped it. So that's what we typically do. Now a syndication
the high if there's a portfolio that you've already collected, you've got, you know, five single family
residences and two apartments that you've collected over the years before you got to the syndication.
Syndication is such a high liability because you've got SEC regulation, you're taking people's money, not
just the business project itself, that we usually will have the lawsuit protection trust, own not only the
piggy bank company that does the equity stripping, but will own this the other non syndication real estate.
So we've decided that it's all relative, that the syndication is such high liability, it has high payback payout
and everything, but we want to protect those other real estates from the syndication. So it's an anomaly
that we put it on the lawsuit protection side, but we put it as a sister company, not a subsidiary to the
piggy bank, but a sister company so we can still equity strip. So that piggy bank company not only can
equity strip or put liens on your position in the syndication, but it also gets to equity strip those properties
that are your own personal hope families hold. Okay.

Ken Hosac 18:08

And the other thing is, | get scared on irrevocable trust just because it uses the word revocable. Yeah, it
sounds like the only thing that | can't revoke is the ownership of like, I'll just say the Wyoming LLC, it could
be Nevada could be one of these other ones. But since | fully manage the Wyoming LLC, | can bring
underlying property LLC is or in and out, | can bring liens for equity stripping in and out so | have full
control. The only thing | can't do is take the Wyoming company out of the revocable trust, is that my
understanding?

 

© Kevin Day 18:45

That is correct. So you can control and over simplification for to answer your question. This isn't my trust,
written for my children and grandchildren and great grandchildren that have all these restrictions. And it's
irrevocable. This is I'm your scribe, but I'm writing for you. And essentially, the irrevocability is, hey, the
trustee, you're supposed to make Ken happy. The only time that you're not going to disgorge assets is if
he's asking for the assets back under duress because the courts have thumbscrews on him. That's the only
irrevocability if you're happy, you've retired, you have no more investments, you've sold everything and
you say | want everything back. The trustees job is to make you happy as long as you're not under duress
and give it all back. So it's an irrevocable trust that we can totally unwind.
They're asking you for all your assets. If you have an entity that you own, that is holding the lien. The
problem is you're still basically in control and you know, they can what's the word discord, you have that
equity, they can they can they can get that equity, but but if you have an IR revocable trust and they go in
and you have to disclose everything you own, you don't have to disclose that because you don't own it.

@ Kevin Day 37:13

Right, you have legal deniability, where the corporations companies always have to have an owner that
will either lead to you ultimately, or an irrevocable trust. So anything owned by an irrevocable trust, you
have legal deniability over to direct question under penalty of perjury. Perjury is a felony. And so you can't
perjure yourself, but we want to put you in a position where you're not perjuring yourself, and you're only
telling them about this part of your estate, not about this amount of estate.

© Russ 37:47

Yeah, | mean, | can tell you, | signed a PG on a deal, which | should have never done for syndication where
| got no compensation for doing it. The deal went sideways in 2008. The lender came after me, but | had
myself structured in such a way that when they came, and | went in for the order of examination, | had my
bankruptcy attorney sitting right next to me, and | didn't go bankrupt. But | had her there just in case. And
| had to disclose things and certain things, and she helped me know what | needed to say, what | should
say, and what | shouldn't say. And at the end of the day worked out fine. But it was because you know, |
had kind of it was really dumb luck. | mean, | really did, | came out of that realizing, wow, | need to tighten
this up, right, it was just dumb luck that | happen to be structured to where | was I, | had enough

knowledge to be dangerous, but | didn't have the level of knowledge | have today. And | certainly didn't
have the team | have today. So I'm telling you, the time to find out about it is not when you need it, | think
you have to expect that someday in your career, you're going to need it. | mean, it's all sunshine and
unicorns right now. But you know, the financial markets could implode tomorrow. And all these lovely
investors that are your best friends today are going to blame you for crashing the financial system. And
they're going to want to pound your flesh to compensate them make them whole, right, because they only
wanted the upside. They even though they accepted the downside, to get their opportunity to get the
upside. Human nature is such they expect you to take all the downside and they want all the upside. And
that's just one of the hard realities of this business. And it's why I'm so adamant for people. And I'm glad
you guys are here on the call. And hopefully those of you that are watching after the fact are not just going
to listen to be intellectually stimulated, but you will actually engage you will actually get your structure set
up. And you will really put some time into learning how to operate it correctly. Because just having it
doesn't make you say, you know, | can have a great car with great brakes and great seatbelt safety
system. But if | don't put the seatbelt on, if | don't use the full power of the vehicle, I'm not that much
better off. | mean, I'm better off than if | didn't have it at all. But it really is important that you learn how to
operate because this is a very important part of your part of your business. And the thing Is if you build the
structure, right the way we've described it to you in our sessions, is it scalable, you don't have to connect
Add, like entity after entity after entity, you basically have, you know, your asset protection. Trust over
here you have your main business trust here, maybe your main investment trust, you might have three
ultimate trusts Max, and everything exists inside them in different silos and then you're off to the side
owning next to nothing, just enough to look like a normal human being. And then you go about your
business, the only entities that you continue to roll out are each time you do a new syndication, you form a
new entity, single purpose entity for that, that individual syndication. But your core structure, once it's
established really doesn't change that much unless something happens in the law that is going to require
it to adapt. And again, that's what you have your team for, because they they stay on top of all that and let
you know when those changes are necessary. Gotcha.
LS Kevin Day 22:53
And the second part of your question Can was personal guarantees, personal guarantees are not a secured
position. We've had people that have had bad economic things happen to them. And the Equus equity
stripping has still survived, despite personal guarantees, because personal guarantees, say I'll personally
guarantee it for whatever | own the time. And if we put assets in a structure that remove it irrevocably and
remove your legal ownership over assets, then you don't have that as part of your personal ownership to
guarantee anything. So we've actually had clients be in a better position because of personal guarantees.
They're not a secured interest.

Ken Hosac 23:40

i Yeah, no, that makes sense. | just need to figure out how | would show that on the, the balance sheet or
the net worth statement that | have to give them on a regular basis.

 

© Kevin Day 23:50

It's still we have CPAs doing consolidated reports, it's still your entire estate, it's still value that you have.
And if you know, if you need to give up assets to get you're not trying to lawsuit protect yourself from
financing. It's the rest of the world. So it's still part of your estate. So you can do a consolidated report that
shows all of the value.

© Russ 24:17

Hey, Ken, you know, what we could do would be kind of fun. If Kevin's up for it. | could get Kevin Anton and
Mike Ppine, and you and we could do a session, record it make it a piece of content for the platform,
because you're not the only guy that's ever going to face this question. And we can hash it all out with all
viewpoints represented because this is the whole thing when you don't get all your advisors on the same
page at the same time talking about the issue at hand, you are going to end up you know, running around
and there's always going to be a little gap of understanding the way to get that gap to completely closed is
to have everybody at the table and hash it out. It seems expensive, but it's actually the fastest cheapest
way to do it. And you know, it doesn't seem that way, but when you add up all the running around and the
back and forth, and the consultations and the and, and the much higher probability, you're going to miss
something and make a mistake that you won't find out about until it matters is high. So I, you know, I, |
can't speak for Kevin or the others. But you know, I'm always game to do that, because my mission in life
is to create great content for the platform, and | want it to come 100% Out of the real world.

© Ken Hosac 25:26

| would absolutely love to and | saw Adam popped up on the chat saying he'd like to participate too. And
since Adam and | were asking a lot of the same questions, and probably we're in the same boat a bit that |
think that would be a great session to records.

© Russ 25:37

Okay. Okay, yeah. So Adam, since you, you're texting me, just go ahead and text me or email me and copy
Sylvana or membership, I'm sorry, membership at syndication, mentoring club, a note to put that together.
to pass tax benefits through so people can sign on as GPS. But my general question is, is that the holding
company? When | talked to Michelle, it shouldn't have been underneath the asset protection trust, and it
should have been under my own name, and then let the equity stripping portion that we've talked about
license back, you know, the investor list or something to pull the equity out of there. And then the other
day, Ross had brought up that, you know, he did a little diagram, you can chime in here, Ross, at any point
that you needed a diagram, we had the asset protection trust on top that had a holding company and the
holding company had, you know, the deal. So where does the what's the best structure there? | guess, is
my question or why do | have different answers?

és Kevin Day 05:59

Right. So the investment is high value, but the fact that you are coming in as a general partner, and I've
done that myself to get very positive tax benefits, but you're a general partner, which means you have full
liability for the whole enchilada. And that's too high of a liability to put into the piggy bank. So the equity
stripping, keeping it on your side on the business structure side, eventually leading to you or your living
trust, makes it a lightning rod. But we know that it's on the table to be a lightning rod, because that's what
the GP is there for. But by equity stripping it, there's no value there that there's a prior creditor. Now, as
soon as you get finished with the tax loop and and move into the limited partnership side, depending on
how long the syndication is going to go. And when that shift over is, then we definitely want to put the LP
interest is zero liability. So we do want to move that or shift that to the asset protection plan. But it's
mostly because it's the general partnership interest, which you absolutely want for the tax savings.

© Adam 07:21

Okay, that, | guess, yeah, that answers that just the general partnership is what what makes the switch
between you being on your side or being on the other side?

© Russ 07:31

Correct? Yeah, it goes back to what | said at the top is you have to understand, when you're doing the
actual deal, you should have a structure that will allow you to do anything. So then when you decide what
to do on any given deal, it depends on what you're trying to accomplish. If in some of these deals you're
going in as the GP so that you can take advantage of a tax advantage, you got to put the deal where it's
going to provide the tax advantage where you want it to go. And then if In so doing, because the flip side
of that, as Kevin pointed out, is the liability, the whole point of getting the you know, putting yourself in a
position to get the tax advantage, also puts you in the line of fire for liability. And so what | heard Kevin,
say if | heard correctly, and correct me if I'm wrong, is that for the season, that you're taking the tax
advantage, you hold it in such a way, and you isolate or strip the equity or put a put a pre existing lien, so
that if if something does happen, it happens after that lien has been in place. So therefore the equity that
is in that structure, that is accepting the liability is already protected, the asset is protected from the prior
lien. And then you can remove the lien, you can, you know, retitle or move something elsewhere, when
you get into a different season, and that the tax break is gone. And now all it is, is a limited liability hold
that asset needs to go deeper into the piggy bank, where it doesn't need to have any exposure. So again,
this is the idea that you can't ever have everything all at once. But if you have the right structure and the
right counsel and you know what you're doing, then you move things around. It's like having, it's like my
car, my cars are convertible. And if it's a rainy day, | put the top, if it's a cold day, | put the top up and turn
the heater on. If it's a nice day | put the top down. So I'm able to re restructure my vehicle if you will to suit
