go find new people is when you're in when you don't have a deal that you're in between deals,
and you're literally going out there finding out what exactly does your prospect want? Or
looking at it? It's all about right, Ross? It's never about you. It's always about Yeah, |

©) Russ 52:43

mean, that was an area or yeah, that scenario forces you to focus on the money, you're
focused on the capital, because you don't have a deal. You're not, you're not prejudiced
towards trying to find you know, the answer to your problem, you're only looking for their
problems, and then you go looking for solutions, the answer to your problem is to solve their
problem, right? If you if you find money that needs a deal, and you go find a deal that matches
the money, you've solved your problem. But you by solving their problem, you what happens is
our thinking gets jaded when we go out and get into a deal. And then we look at the capitalist
way to solve our problem and that people can smell that | just think if you're going to be a
sincere, authentic human being, you really, really have to put yourself interest aside, and the
easiest way to do it is not have a dog in the race when you're having the conversation.

© Mauricio 53:32

Yeah, and it's and it's very specific to the facts that we always Say it's facts and circumstances
because even though it's hard to condition the market when you don't have a deal, because
you obviously can't talk to them about a specific deal. So how can you be making an offer, and
if you're doing what you're talking about that | have zero concerns about that. However, if you
sat down with this person and said, Hey, look, we're gonna find we're about to get in the
contract. I'm telling you, we give 20% returns all year round. And that's what I'm going to get
you next time, that kind of language now that starts to condition the market for when you have
the deal. But if you're being coming from it the right place, which is where rust comes from,
which is, hey, here's what we do, what are you looking for, and if | find something that you're
looking for, is it okay if | come to you with something like that when you come from that place?
There's it's very difficult to condition the market at that point.

©) Russ 54:19

By the way, it's horse in the race dog in the hunt. | mix that up. | guess people race dogs. Okay,
any other questions?

© Brad Niebuhr 54:28

Thanks, y'all. appreciate them?

@ Russ 54:31

Gonna no one Okay, no, go yeah, go go.
JO

JO

_)oO

JO

54:34

Opportunities. I'm questions. So Rachel on if you have an opportunity zone deal, and you want
to do and, you know, you purchase the property, you put more money into the property than
the purchase price. It's stabilized. It's worth more and you do cash out refinance. My CPA had
previously said that the IRS doesn't like seeing cash out refinances on those because It's a was
a return. have capital the money? You said the last inner circle | saw. He said there's a way to
potentially do a cash out refinance, where it doesn't void the opportunity zone. Can you talk
about that?

Mauricio 55:13

Mike? I'm gonna be | haven't we haven't done an opportunity zone in a long. | mean, | haven't
looked at that stuff is so long. But | was going to flag that | do know that there's a risk if |
remember. And again, | may have even changed since the last time | looked at it really. I'm
looking at in two or three years. But there is a limitation in there, where, and | think there's $1
limit, but you've got to keep the basis of the product. There's something in there that will
prohibit you from just doing exactly what you said, because that's just an end around to it. So
there is that cash out refinance limitation, that would count basically as a, it would just violate
the | remember that valley in the | don't remember the details of it. I'm not I'm not. You may
want to ask the question. Again, I'm not following if there was a way around the pulling out the
cash.

DoIe9

Well, so the basis | thought there was It's a classification, right, like a typical cash out refinance.
You're you're pulling, you're you're borrowing money, right. But with the opportunity's own, my
understanding was that they're just you would you would classify it as you're pulling your
profits out of the deal. You're not pulling your principal of the deal. | thought that that that
might that distinguish the same machine that would help keep it Yeah,

Mauricio 56:25

that's another part. One of the like, nice things | liked about a bunch of us on it is primarily an
IRS, you know, tax thing. So I've always punted to the thing I'm gonna | don't know the |
actually don't know the answer to it's just been so long since | looked at it. | mean, | got in front
of it, but it just hasn't been working out for multifamily investors to the substantial economic
substantial improvement thing just doesn't work. And so it's only really working for
development deals and very other so | just don't have an answer.

56:52
Okay. | think | might have missed certain so yeah, off the CP on that.

56:59
JO

JO

JO

got a tax problem, I'd like to help you let me introduce you this person that | know they've got
an investment that my understanding Is you get a significant tax benefit. Why don't you talk to
them, and you refer them and you can document for them the syndicator, | would document
that there was a referral that they reached out to him first. But at that point, they haven't
generally solicited. They haven't advertised. And so they're going to be just fine. They don't
have a pre existing substitute relationship, but they don't need one.

Ales 7

And I'll add to that, since it's my deal that | don't we haven't filed, we haven't finished the PPM.
| think it's been a week or something. So it's not. Yeah, that's

41:47

good. Yeah. So I'm glad | asked. So you're saying if if the referral and it's documented, then the
the pre existing relationship is not a crack? | didn't know that?

41:55
Yeah, yeah. Yeah,

Russ 41:56

yeah. And just to be clear, for everybody, and we've got a big debate between B and C. But
basically, C means you're dealing with accredited investors. And if you're using the C
exemption, you're not going to sell to any non accredited investors, and you're free to advertise
or solicit people to come in. If you're using B, you can't rely upon that. But you can bring in non
accredited as you'd have to have a PPM for them. And you have to have a substantive pre
existing relationship, which means that relationship existed before the offering was made. In
this case, you know, we've already discussed this case where you've got to be offering that's in
place, but you're not soliciting the person. They're coming to you through a referral. And | think
just to put a little extra insurance on it, the way to do it is to have the prospects and an email
to the syndicator and say, Hey, | heard from my friend, sap that you've got the | am interested,
because that way it's

Mauricio 42:53

or set an email or idea easiest is just Sep sends an introductory email. Hey, Johnny, | want to
introduce you to him, but one of my clients, so he's looking for help. | suggested to you, I'll let
the two of you take it from here.

Russ 43:03
Yeah, the point is, is that you you as the syndicator with the be offering did not initiate the
the profit and loss of those 10 homes. And then in the future date, you know, six months from
now, you raise another tranche of money. And that goes specifically to the to the second new
construction, and they only participate in the profit and losses of that. So those

©) Russ 20:16

are we do create different classes of investors in the same LLC, participate in specific deals.
Yeah, we did that one time, because we had raised money for a deal. And we had a deal that
we had already previously raised money, and we wanted to add on. And so the new people
coming in, didn't get the benefit of the first deal. Because they weren't part of it, we funded the
holder, we raised the money and did the first deal. And it really wasn't fair for the other people
to come in after we'd already successfully closed because they were taking less risk. So rather
than do that, we just put them in their own category. And so they were able to partake in the
things we did going forward. But the people who came in after the original deal didn't partake
In that deal. And | think the other question or the other, the other thing that you need to be
mindful of, and Marissa alluded to it, but | want to highlight it is that when people are putting
money into a deal, they are hoping for a particular type or category of financial result, cash
flow, tax break, privacy, preservation of capital, growth of capital, whatever it is, when you
start putting additional things in, you have to ask yourself, Is this complementary to or
conflicting with? what's already in there? Am | gonna dilute what the people who are already in
came for? Am | going to add risk that they didn't bargain for? You know, again, if you give
yourself if you create a blind fund, where you have complete discretion, and people are just
like, hey, | trust Scott, Florida's judgment, | don't care what he's Warren Buffett of real estate, |
don't care what he buys, | trust him I'm in, | consider that to be very dangerous way to
syndicate. Because if you make a mistake, then everybody claims that you didn't tell them that
you had bad judgment. And you know, and you really don't have a leg to stand on. Because
there was no, in your, in your, in your document explaining the risk, the risk was, hey, | could
do something stupid. And you could lose all your money. And then if that happens, then
everybody says, well, you're stupid or worse, grossly negligent and personally liable. In all
cases, it's generally not good until you're at a high level where people just are falling over
themselves to give you money. So just be mindful of that making sure that there's a portfolio if
you're, if you're doing a portfolio and not a deal. And a portfolio would be something has more
than one deal in it, then you have to have a portfolio strategy and objective that you're
explaining to your investor. So at least they understand that you're aiming at a specific target.
And if you hit that target, even if it's target, they decide later on, they're not interested in, you
can claim success, because this is what | told you, | was going to do, and | did it. But if you say,
Hey, I'm investing for cash flow, and then you go do a development deal. And you're going to
sell before there's ever any rent. And the whole purpose of it was just to create capital gain.
That's kind of incompatible. Right? Or if you say I'm an income investor, or a real estate
investor, and then you go buy gold or crypto. Right, then that's not what they bargained for. So
part of that is marketing. And part of that is legal. But structurally, ratio, yeah, is what ratio said
IS you can put anything you want your fun, as long as you've disclosed it to people, and
everybody agrees now, but there are risks. And | just want to make sure you're aware of those
risks also.

© Mauricio 23:44

Yeah, and there's one other thing that this will be a good opportunity to maybe either remind
folks that are on the call or listening or this may be news to some of you. So it's probably a
JO

38:43

Thank you. Okay, so second, I'm gonna go to the third question. The third question was, | know
another syndicator is working on a 506 b raise with anther pen X. And | have a credit investor

that | want to refer the sub syndicator to, they don't have a pre existing relationship, my credit
investor wants the tax benefits by the end of the year. So is there enough time to if there if the
sub syndicator is doing a 506? B? Is there enough time to establish a pre existing relationship?

Russ 39:15
No, or, | mean, how can | know? Because | mean, I'm going to answer and see if I'm right or
wrong. I'll let Maria correct me. But the way | understand it is if the deal is out there being

offered, then your relationship came into existence after the offering and then your relation,
there's no way your relationship can be pre existing. Now, if you're saying they're working on it,
and they actually have an issue the offering and is there time to sneak in before they do is that
really what the gist of the question is? So two parts from Lucia first, am | right or wrong on
that? And then the second for SAP is where are they actually at? So let's cover it in principle
with Mauricio and then we'll come back to step two the specific facts of your situation and
answered in the context of the principles ratio.

© Mauricio 40:01

You're correct, but it's not complete. So you're 100% Correct, that there's no way that they can
establish a pre existing substantive relationship once the offering is commenced. So there's no
way you could do that. Because once the offering started, then that's it. You're done.

© Russ 40:16

It's birthday prejudice dates, your relationship date.

© Mauricio 40:20

That's right. So all so from that perspective, all they can do is start that relationship and offer
them the future deal, where it's incomplete is that having a pre existing substantive
relationship is not the exclusive way that you can get to your answer, right, it's the most
common way, | would say 98% of the time, that's the one that gets used but sending a referral
the the language is you cannot generally solicit or advertise, right, there's nothing actually in
the rule that says you have to have a pre existing subsistent relationship that's come later from
the SEC in their guidance. But even in their guidance, they say it's not the exclusive way, there
are other ways to to get in. There's other ways to prove suggests a referral. So we're referral is
a referral. So when you refer your contact to that person, you obviously cannot get
compensated for that. You certainly cannot. You should not be even though you're not getting
coffee, you should not be giving your advice as to whether it's a good investment or a bad
investor, you want to stay away from that. But if you say, hey, look, | want to help you, you've
JO

Russ 32:01
But it also saves the syndicator a lot of administrative time to put together you know, so

Mauricio 32:08

and to Ross's point, always, yeah, you just put it in your budget, there's a line item in there that
just says whatever it's called, and there should be enough meat on the bone to cover it. So the
customer returns that or experience, they're more likely to come back and invest with you the
next time.

32:22

Thank you. And last one, I'll ask and I'll go off camera for this one. When is the PPM not
required? And the context for this one, Marissa, | think | actually reached out to you on this one.
But | ended up going with another SEC attorney we ended up syndicating the mini syndication
of a convertible note into already a public company ahead of a crowd offering and the attorney
we use didn't require that he just required a subscription agreement, affirmation of
accreditation, LLC agreement. So but from your perspective, what is it PPM not required

Mauricio 32:52

PPM would definitely not be required if all of your investors not all of you to the to the
accredited investors. So accredited investors do not require the protections of all the disclosure
documents so you you if all of your investors are accredited, then a PPM is not required.
Generally speaking, if you've got at least one non accredited you do a PPM you generally
provide the accredited investor with a PPM you've already done the work but it's not required.
That'd be one scenario, any 506 C deal, when would not be required any 506 B deal that only
has accredited would not be required. If you did a rule 504 exemption one would not be
required. However, | don't know anybody who would want to do that. But Rule five or some
sometimes | get calls from people saying | want to do a rule 504. And just just | don't spend too
much time on it because it but but rule 504 is a almost never used exemption, they keep
upping the limit. So used to be a $1 million limit. Now it's $5 million limits, | think they just
increased it, that one does allows you to bring in nonaccredited does not require a PPM.
However, the reason 504 doesn't work is because it doesn't present state law. So you have to
then go into every single state that you have investors in and hire a securities lawyer in every
single state and make sure you're complying with those state rules. So that's why it's very
rarely used. But but the main one is that if accredited investors do not require a PPM. Now what
| don't know, which is what you just mentioned that | actually, honestly, it's very rare that | get
a question where I'm but | don't know anything about public markets. So the fact that if you did
a convertible note into if you got a loan that converted an equity into a into a private
syndication, that would that would be the same as anything, are they accredited? Are they not
the fact that you're flipping it to a public? | don't know the answer that | don't know if there's an
exemption to that because it's obviously with a public market. That's a whole different new
rules and regulations. So | don't know about that specific fact pattern, but generally speaking,
accredited investors are the main ones that you don't need a PPM.
JO

Thank you. It's

Russ 57:03

better when you're talking if you actually unmute yourself. So | think we're gonna call it right
there a Thanks, everybody. | think all gentlemen, | don't know. But anyway, gang, call you the
gang. So appreciate you being on the call. And I'm sure we'll have another one here

Mauricio 57:19

coming out there. But she never showed her face by paying go. Oh, okay.

Russ 57:23

All right. Good. Two ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. So we'll call that a wrap.
Appreciate you being on the call. Appreciate all the great questions. Great conversation, big
Shout in virtual virtual hand to Mauricio for donating his time today and making this a great
call. I'm sure I'll see many of you before the holidays, but if | don't Happy Holidays, and we'll
see you on the next call.

57:47

Thanks, everyone. Thank you. Thanks, guys.
 

°
O)

Jo

Ken Hosac 34:46

Just a quick follow up question. | had heard, | think in some of the calls before we talked about
for if a PPM if you have an LLC and any of the partners are not active, they're just purely
passive that you had to have PPM but you're saying as long as they're accredited, then they
can still be passive and you don't need the PPM?

Mauricio 35:06

Correct. Correct. And that's, I'm glad you brought that up, | was talking in the context of a
securities offering, if it's not a securities offering, obviously, if it's a joint venture a true or
legitimate joint venture, then obviously, you're not selling securities, there'd be no PPM
required as well. But if you had a, a PP, an offering with one passive investor or two passive
investors, and they're both accredited, you would not be obligated to provide them you actually
get to choose what type of disclosures you provide accredited investors, you've got to make
sure that when you give them those disclosures, those are complete and that you're not
omitting you know, material facts, but you don't have any affirmative obligation. The problem
is, it's very difficult to give investors information without them having to give some kind of
document it may not be called the PPM, but there's some risk disclosures. Unless you just say
I'm raising money, give me 100 grand, and call it a day, then then no ppm or anything's
required, but you're gonna the minute you start giving him, you know, p&l projections, once
you've once you give them a pitch deck, you've now given them a bunch of information. Now,
we've got to make sure that information is not misleading, that you didn't know MIT material
fact. So that then triggers the obligation to give them some disclosures. But it doesn't have to
be the level of disclosure, you would give a non accredited that you basically have to treat
them as completely ignorant and give them the full blown disclosures of every every single
thing you can think of.

Russ 36:32
Okay, set back to you now.

36:35

Okay, three questions. So we get I'm going to go over these ones first. First one is follow up
from the question that Brad asked. | was thinking about the the websites. So the disclaimer
wording that syndicator is supposed to put on the bottom of the webpage, basically to disclose
that, you know, we're not we're not offering securities and all that. I've asked you this before,
it's probably a year ago, but | can't remember where you provided the, the answer to that. Do
you? Is that in a template? Is that an email somewhere?

37:05

Um,
@ Russ 08:41

Yeah, just to be triple Sure. Brad, you may want to run it by Kevin Day, on the asset mentors on
the asset manager is a Managing partner. And once you Once you're clear there, then then just
kind of Greenlight but again, these things, you know, they they take on roles Dustin, put up
Managing Partner, that challenge with partner, in my estimation, in the course is probably more
from resale or indoor, Kevin, is, is that when you say you're a partner, you Know, in a true
partnership, you're you're mutually liable for each other's actions. That's, that's what's the
problem with the general partnership? Right, namely, you're

© Mauricio 09:20

going to be responsible, if they're married, | think they're, they're responsible for each other
anyway.

© Russ 09:24

Right. Yeah. But But yes, on a personal level, but in the corporation or in the, in the in the LLC,
they have their limited because they're, they're operating in their capacity as a aS a manager
of the entity. And in this case, the entity that's doing the business is the syndication, but you
know, the management company full circle, in their case, and then underneath that is going to
be

© Mauricio 09:47

what | think Managing Principal, founder and Mark managing principal would be sounds like it
would be a win win from from a security standpoint, but also, | think, more importantly, from a
branding perspective.

©) Russ 09:57

Yeah, so the branding thing, Paul Paul, put up here No Managing Member. Managing members
fine from a security perspective. And from a asset protection perspective, it's just, you know,
does that word carry any cache when you're talking to, you know, the marketplace. Because,
you know, in our world where we all deal with LLCs on a daily basis, we all understand what
that means. But if you explain that, to someone who lives in corporate, the corporate world,
you don't hear too much about member | mean memberships. It's like you belong to Costco, or
the golf club. Right? It's just is a completely different connotation. So the key is, you just can't
get caught. You know, as we teach in the sales course, you don't want to get caught up in
jargon, that doesn't make sense. Now, where you also don't want to use jargon that paints a
picture that isn't congruent with who you really are. And then you also don't want to use jargon
that opens up legal liability, or securities liability. So it sounds like such a simple little thing. But
you know, this is just the world we live in when you're doing syndication, you have to have to
be prepared. So Brad, did we give you enough to get you out of here so you can move on?
You're Okay. All right. Thanks for being here. Say hi to the gang. And we'll carry on then Dickie.
You pre submitted a question. And Mauricio privately, | thought about trying to punt a little bit
wy MaAUFICIO L515

Well, | think at that point, it's gonna be required, Ben. So what | wasn't sure what | don't know,
my understanding was, so | wanted to double check with Mike Pine. If you had no activity, right,
you just created the LLC, and you funded it. And it was in December of last year, and there was
zero activity going on that year, then, subject to Mike's comments, | think, | think there might
not be a tax, you just there's nothing, there's no activity. So there's no tax to be filed. There's
no tax form to be filed. But the minute you mentioned, you got permits, | mean, you wrote a
check, right to somebody for that permit to some government agency, you, you know, you raise
capital. So presumably you had payments that you took your asset management fee or
acquisition fee or whatever. So the minute you have activity, even if it's not revenue, then then
you absolutely have a tax form to fill out. And like to Russell's point, the good news is, is going
to be losses, which you would be obligated to in the operating agreement. | mean, the
operating agreement will state line certainly do. | don't remember the exact language, but it
will definitely state that within X amount of time, you know, from the you know, | think it's third
90 days from the end of the year, you're going to be taking care of all the tax filings and
providing everybody with a k one and you know, all that stuff. But you know, you've got
financials for sure, right? You have nothing else you've got a balance sheet with investor
equity. But the minute you start writing checks, and you got to be presumably you've
reimbursed yourself also for all the all the things you've advanced on behalf of the syndication
again, whether it's things you've already paid, and it's time to get reimbursed or your
acquisition fees. But the minute you write a check to somebody for a permit, that's an expense,
and so that's a loss, and that belongs to the investors as well. So I'm pretty confident that
you're actually obligated to file a tax return because there's activity if you took Maybe there
was no activity, because you raised them. You raised a couple of bucks last year, but you didn't
do anything and then you finished the raise this year, then then maybe there's an argument
that no tax return but the menu of activity 99%? Well,

@ Russ 15:11

yeah, it's not really a tax return surpass or entity. So it's just the K1 giving the information to
your partners so that they can claim the income or claim the losses. So two questions, Ben. So
first one is the concern, Hey, | just like | don't want to have to go through the hassle of creating
these things if | don't really need to, or is it, | really don't want to send out K1 and show that
we've lost money because I'm afraid that'll open up a can of worms.

(@) Ben 15:34

So I'm going to be very specific. But | don't want to paint anybody in a bad light, just because
it's a closed group and an open call. And | Know this gets recorded, but | specifically changed
accounts moved to pro vision. | have an account there. | won't necessarily name him. |
specifically asked him the question. And he got a shrug and it was like "| wouldn't". And | didn't
like his answer. And it didn't feel right. But um, you know, | just kind of took it. And my initial
thought was, | was going to call Mike pine. But | wanted to bring it here, given his response.

And it's possible that | asked a question in a bad way, but | just didn't like his response.

© Russ 16:18

Okay. All right. Well, | think it's always good to get a second opinion, and people are human,
© Russ 07:29

you've got to learn about it. owner would be bad. Right? If you said I'm an asset protection
owner from an asset protection to be bad. What about principle?

© Mauricio 07:41

Yeah, man, | mean, I've seen that all the time managing principals. Okay. But | mean, principal
is is the same connotation | think as owners.

© Russ 07:48

Well, that's why | asked. Yeah, yeah. So so so you guys get it?

© Mauricio 07:52

It's like, look, it's a closed it's a closed Corporation. | mean, | don't think anybody looks at Brad

and Emily and thinks that their company, Full Circle, | believe right. Full Circle is owned by
some anybody else. But Brandon, Emily. So yeah,

©) Russ 08:05

Here's another Scott Florida just threw one up, which is good founder. Founder. Yeah, | mean,
founders Gradle is

© Mauricio 08:10

not that different. But yeah, founder, founder and CEO, founder and chairman, founder and
chief executive investment. | don't have a problem with the Chief Investment Officer.

©) Russ 08:18

Yeah, that that that was more on a branding. My feeling was it kind of come is more down to
earth, and you're using these corporate titles? If you're going to have more

© Mauricio 08:27

like me, | think managing if that's a concern, | would think Managing Principal Founder and
Managing Principal Founder and Managing Principal, sounds, sounds. Sounds | don't have a

problem from it. From a security standpoint, it sounds like from a branding perspective, it works
for them. Okay.
nine months is not a security. But you just got to be aware that it's a securities offering, you got
to figure a way, obviously not going to do a full blown PPM just for one investor. But at a
minimum, if they end up rolling that money over, or maybe you don't have the option, maybe
it's like, Hey, you put in 50 grand now. And then when when it converts, you're gonna get
$100,000 worth of equity. At that point, you want to make sure they're signing all the PPM docs
and everything. But that initial note, you just got to be aware that that's a securities offering,
we got to figure out the solution that | probably did

©) Russ 50:33

that deal, like before when | was the lawyer. Right? So yeah, cuz you don't, you don't
remember that? You don't figure it out. | didn't

© Mauricio 50:44

talk to the securities attorney before you pull the trigger on that. Just to make sure that you're
papering it correctly, or that you're doing it right.

©) Russ 50:51

Yeah. Okay. So, any other questions? We got time for probably one more if anybody has one.
Otherwise, we can all take an early break.

© Brad Niebuhr 51:01

I'll ask one. Okay. Yeah, great. So | guess this is a question around conditioning the market
versus what constitutes an offer at which point I've got a opportunity for a development deal. |
don't normally do developments. But I've gotten hooked into that space with a group and have
started talking to some people that | have, | don't have a pre existing relationship with the
other people in the group do and just really feeling them out for his development, something
you're interested in investing in, we might have something. Is that conditioning the market?
Like, are we now locking ourselves out of doing a 506? B? Or | guess I'm trying to, | know that
talking about it can start to trigger some things? I'm trying to be careful about what | say.

© Mauricio 51:47

Yeah, so those two points right there. So if | heard you correctly, it sounded like you've gota
group of co sponsors, right? There's more effectively, yeah. And so when you and Is that If you
ultimately do your syndication with those three, or four or five, we're hoping that many but
three to three or four co sponsors, then anybody that's within their sphere of influence, or their
if they have a pre existing relationship, you the group Is gonna have a pre existing relationship,
if it's somebody that that | have a pre existing relationship with, and we're partnering, and
that's that you're going to be able to use that that's going to be fine. And the other thing to
think about is, if you're talking about that's perfect to talk about | mean, that's exactly what
what | say we teach that Robin and Russ teach at the syndication seminar that the best time to
@ Russ 01:19

Okay, yeah. And let me bring a little extra color on this, because now | remember the
conversation. So what had happened is we were doing their bios from a kind of a sales and
marketing perspective. And, you know, Brad and Emily are down home country folks, right?
They live in the country, she likes horses, they're they're pretty low key. And they originally had
themselves listed as the managing member of the LLC, which | think is fine. And then they did a
brainstorming session and decided to call themselves CEO and CEO. And, you know, | started
thinking about that from a just kind of a branding perspective and said, Well, you know, your
pictures against a green forest backdrop, your, you know, in a casual shirt, not a suit and tie,
you don't really look like an executive officer. So |, | don't feel like those two things gel. And
then | said, you know, principle that would be pretty good. And then it brought up be, you

know, the idea of corporate formalities. And what are you really saying? And | said, Well, that's
actually going to be a Mauricio question. So the three titles that are on we're CEO, managing
member, managing principal, Principal, and maybe what other titles would you say? Maybe not
SO much are good, but which ones would you Say are absolutely off limits?

© Mauricio 02:40

One | try and avoid is fund manager. Unless you really do have a fund because that potentially
could bring in issues of whether you're an investment advisor at that point. And that would only
apply if you're actually investing in other people's deals sort of a fund of funds. Short of that. |
mean, you've got branding concerns, and that's | don't necessarily have an issue. There's
nothing that pops in my mind that says,

©) Russ 03:07

| have another one for you. Mauricio just popped into my mind. Yeah, a chief investment officer.
Because | know that with Peter Schiff, we had to be careful how we introduced him, because we
had to introduce him as chief global strategist. We couldn't talk about investment. We couldn't
talk about. We couldn't brand him that way. Because for the same same reasons you're
bringing up you know, he, he he does operate as a fund manager, but he doesn't. He doesn't
want to have | don't remember what it was a legal reason. | don't remember what.

© Mauricio 03:44

Yeah, but that's a little bit different, because he's a registered securities, brokerage firm and
advisor. And so he's got to worry about all these compliance, FINRA, probably the SEC as well,
because he's a Registered Agent. Brad is not an Emily would none of you guys here are our
Registered Agent, because, and that's one of the reasons people don't want to be registered
agents. Because as soon as that happens, then you've got to fall within all the compliance
nonsense of whatever regulatory body is overseeing you. So

© Russ 04:14
good place to talk about it. And one of the things that most syndicators forget is that one of the
requirements of a reg D offering either 506 B or 506, well, really 506B because it wouldn't
apply to a 506 C, but when you do a 506 B, one of your requirements is that you must provide
all of your non accredited investors with audited financials. Most of the time, that's not an issue
because we're creating brand new companies, there are no financials let alone audited
financials, right. But when you start doing funds, or you start doing things that have a longer
timeline, you run into the issue that if you start selling to non accredited investors further down
the timeline, you may get into the position where you have to start providing them with audited
financials, which is another cost. I'm not saying you shouldn't do it, but you know, audited
financials aren't necessarily cheap. And you have to factor that into your equation. Because
when you have a brand new deal, there's no financials but a year from now. Well, now you've
got a whole year of operations, right? It's not a brand new company with no financials you've
actually had a year with financials are six months worth the financials or maybe a quarter of
financials. And it's a little bit fuzzy as to what point it gets triggered. But at some point, you're
going to have an ongoing active operational company. And so the next time you bring in a non
accredited you, you may be required to provide them with not with audited financial, and at the
very least, you should be in constant consultation with your securities attorney to make sure
that when that sale happens, that you're, again, fully complying with the rules. And so you want
to make sure you're in touch with the thing. So that's one of the concerns. The way around that
Is very simple as that you just make sure you get all your non accredited IDs in the door, right
at the beginning. And so after, let's say, a quarter, anything, anybody that you sell further
down, the line would just be accredited. It's only because you would you don't have an
obligation to provide accredited investors with audited financials, although a sophisticated
accredited investor again, if let's fast forward a year from now, there's a good chance, you
know, | would certainly ask for your financials. If I'm if I'm investing 100 grand into your deal.
And your deals already got, you know, assets in the portfolio, and you've been operating for the
last six months, I'm going to want to see those financials, they don't have to be audited,
because I'm accredited. But if they're not accredited, they have to be audited.

@) Scott Florida 26:10

That's really helpful. It brings up another question, too, that's kind of related in you maybe
addressed it. timeframes. So if | was going to do this, would you recommend, hey, because I'm
new at this, because of the just the overall picture, do it, hey, you got three months to, I'm
going to offer this for three months, make it available for three months, and then whatever we
have at that point, then we close the deal and move forward with what we have. Or, you know,
that was

© Mauricio 26:38

Yeah, that would solve that problem. And it would also solve the problem and having to create
different classes of shares. Because the other thing you could do, which the other point |
wanted to make is, if you felt like well, it's not fair for somebody coming in first, or somebody
coming in last to have equal say, so I'm going to create two different classes of shares or
membership units. So that one of them is the portfolio. And the other one is the the new
construction. The other thing you can certainly do is just increase the again, you got to disclose
it on the front end. But you know, the price at the beginning is $100,000 a share. But at some
point, we're going to do a reevaluation and maybe six months down the line, those shares are
now $1,100 a share. Because why? Well, because you know, you've already a lot of the risk has
gone away, or you now the portfolio is performing, it's cash flowing. So it only makes sense that
you're going to be you know, but we've got to disclose that ahead of time with a formula. But
the way to solve all that is, as you mentioned, if you just set a set time of three to four to, |
would say three to six months from the time you close on those first on that first property, then
you eliminate the issue of having to worry about audited financials or treating different
different people differently because they're all they all gone in basically around the same time.

@ Russ 27:45

Okay, so let's keep going here. Set. You've got a question here about disclaimer. So are you
on?

27:52

Hey, |am Can you guys take false questions first? Because | don't think | am. Okay. Delete my
question.

_JO

@ Russ 27:57

Yeah. Okay. So Paul, who kept flashing in and out wanting to get a word in edgewise. So Paul,
what's your question?

28:04

Couple questions. One, the first one was, if I'm doing a raise in a syndication and it's a
substantial one, can | put in my own funds? And then as investors come in post close, can |
basically put them in my own place?

JO

© Mauricio 28:21

Yeah, we do that | actually, you know, | started doing this many years ago. And it because it
just started happening. And I'm not sure how many people do it. But | actually put language in,
In my documents that addressed placeholders. So there's language in my documents that say,
if for whatever reason, we don't have enough money to close on the transaction, | reserve the
right to put money in as a placeholder so we can close and then | will continue to raise post
close and basically backfill my thing, because you're literally a placeholder, so you're not
making any profit from it, you're not getting anything crazy, you're just saying, Hey, we're
ready to close, we've got enough money to close, we just don't have enough money for all the
fees and whatever, we may need another couple 100 grand, then you could put in the 200,
grand yourself, close it, you would be a placeholder. And then you know, in the next hopefully
quickly, a week or two, because otherwise, you have the same problem,

> Ditcce YDQA:1171
December-2021-Ask-the-Mentors-Q&A-Call-on-
Legal-and-Complian...

@ Thu, 12/91:14PM @57:51

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

investors, question, deal, syndication, ppm, fund, syndicator, people, money, mauricio, raise, llc, point,
pre existing relationship, accredited, securities, earnest money deposit, accredited investors, offering,
put

SPEAKERS

Mauricio, Ben, Brad Niebuhr, Scott Florida, Ken Hosac, Russ

©) Russ 00:01

Okay syndication veteran club we are here in December of 2021 with our monthly estimate
tours and this time it's legal and compliance with our good friend, attorney and securities
expert, Mauricio Raul.

© Mauricio 00:15

How's everyone doing? Looking forward to it? It's gonna be a good one.

©) Russ 00:19

We're gonna have a good time. So we have one pre submitted question from Ben, who's on the
call, but Brad, inner circle member currently showing up as a community call host. But
everybody that's that's Brad. He has a question that came up yesterday. | can't remember we
we did the fast start with with Staci and Mike Pine last night. So Brad, go ahead and ask your
question, because | know you have another call you got to jump to.

© Brad Niebuhr 00:46

So we're working on our BIOS, Emily and | have had a lot of things changing in the last several
years and our bios are actually several years old, looking to update those. So we're working on
that with Russ. And we're just getting to, we're thinking brainstorming, what are some good
titles for ourselves, and not just us? Like anybody in general? Who's looking to put a title on
their position at their syndication business? What are some good titles that aren't going to get
us in trouble?
JO

37:08

you know which wording I'm referring

Russ 37:10

to? Yeah, yeah. So it's the wording that Just basically says nothing here should be construed as
a solicitation, or an offer.

© Mauricio 37:17

Template. Yeah, | have a template that usually goes at the bottom of email is actually when
you're when you're sending out a preliminary email. But you could put that at the bottom of
your thing, | tend to have a really, there's two disclaimers. One is if you're doing a 506 B, or
one that you're not advertising, and so you want to make Sure this is not an offer to sell, you
know, this is just informational, only that kind of language. And then there's a one where you
have a 506 C, which does allow you to advertise, then it's actually a larger disclaimer for me,
because it's like, Hey, we're not broker dealers, you know, this hasn't been registered. This is
under 560. It's accredited only about. So I'm happy to email those. And | don't know where you
would put them on the platform, but | can, | can send those over to you to membership.

© Russ 37:57

You send him to a membership and just reference this, ask the mentors and then I'll make it an
addendum to this particular estimate tours. The indexing project is underway, so hopefully
finding all the content will be a lot easier once all the indexing is done. We're gonna find better
ways to organize because there's a lot of content there's a lot of q&a there's just a ton. But
finding stuff is we know not you guys

© Mauricio 38:20

can't wait if you guys can't wait if you go to OCD fund calm opendoor I'm sorry. Oh, DC
opendoor. Capital

@ Russ 38:27

o si. No OCD. | think it's OCD, obsessive compulsive disorder fund. Oh, DC

© Mauricio 38:33

opendoor capital. So it's OTC fun, calm. If you go all the way to the bottom of that, that's got
the four paragraph disclaimer, that's mine. And that's what I'm going to send you guys If you
can't wait.
over to Mike pine, but | didn't see that in time to do it. So we'll do our best, but it's got some
tax concept kind of connotation in here. And unless we have somebody who's qualified to have
an opinion, tax wise on the call that we are unaware of, then then Marissa and | will do our
best. So Ben, go ahead and ask your question. And then we'll, we'll we'll rally around it.

Ben 11:32

Sure. And thank you. So Mauricio, |, | actually thought maybe it was for Mike as well. But |
thought compliance and just wanted to get the group's thoughts. quick background to the
question Is, I'm doing a residential Assisted Living Project, and the project has some distinct
phases, we went through a capital raise phase, we're now in the design and what | call the
activation phase prior to getting to operations. Fundamentally, in this design and activation
phase, we're getting permits, we're doing construction. And we're, it's pretty close to ground up
development. And at this point, we have equity investors in the project, where there's no
revenue, but we're going to pass a tax share where they invested in 2021. And | just was
curious on the group's thoughts, since there's no revenue from a compliance, just investor
satisfaction perspective, what what are the thoughts on should you generate a K1 effectively
with a zero on it? Or other best practice you

Russ 12:38
Do you have operating losses? Do you have expenses? Do you have depreciation?

Ben 12:43

We don't have a ton of depreciation yet, but we do have losses in the sense of we've made
Investments that we haven't monetized yet.

Russ 12:53
Well, that's cash flow of their investments. That's different.

Ben 12:55

Right? Well, | may be using the wrong term is their their their, their expenses? Yeah, they're
capital, | guess, expenses?

Russ 13:03

Yeah. Yeah. Well, then then, you know, it is a tax question. But if you have tax benefits in terms
of losses to pass through to your partners, they may want them?
JO

INQODDO 42797.Ai4

which means you can't sell it at a game,

Mauricio 29:13

you will not be able to you're not selling it, you're just you're just kind of holding the next
person's place in line almost. And so as soon as that next person comes in, you're from actually
from a paperwork standpoint, that that new investor is just signing the same documents, you're
issuing that security, and then once that money comes into the company, you're just taking
your placeholder money out. | would | would argue you don't actually even own the
membership units at that point. You're just you're a placeholder. Right. So thank you, but you
wouldn't give it for a profit or anything like that.

29:42

Appreciate it before the second question just for the avoidance of doubt for accredited
investors. There is no need to provide out of the financials. Correct? Correct. Yeah, | haven't
received any been part of so many deals. Okay, the second question, just curious, what Is your
view on using online platforms such just tried best calm for example, for investor
communication, visualizations, Cap table tracking, they make it a little bit easier. I've used
them. But just curious, what are your thoughts?

Mauricio 30:09

There's several platforms out there that syndicators use, that one of us mentioned isn't ringing
the bell not to promote anybody else. But you know, syndication Pro is one of our folios another
one, yeah, Juniper square. More and more of my clients are using us, you know, if you'd asked
me five years ago, I'd be like, you Know, everybody just uses a spreadsheet, and, you know,
whatever, Google, Google, you know, zoom, whatever, not zoom, Doc, whatever. Dropbox
sorry, sharing a Dropbox file. But um, yeah, those are great. They they facilitate access to
investors files, and where you want to be careful is some of those companies also allow you to
put your offering out to the public, right. And so those are the ones you got to be careful about,
because you want to make sure number one that you're eligible to generally solicit, obviously,
make sure it's a 506 C, or reggae or, or regulated crowdfunding, and not you can put your 506
B deal, and have any of these companies Sell it. And then the other thing you got to be super
careful about is what, what a lot of people don't realize is that some of those firms are
registered broker dealers, and some of them are not, because you got to be careful, like, and
then maybe they were getting a little bit off, I'm not sure if we're on the same topic of ideas.
But if you put your offering on these platforms, right to sell the security to the public, you're
gonna they're gonna ask for fees, they're gonna want compensation for that. And you got to be
really careful and make sure are they a broker dealer, a registered broker dealer, so you can
pay them a 5% fee or a 2% fee, or whatever? Or are they relying on some other exemption,
which is essentially Hey, I'm just a marketplace, I'm getting paid to provide you the platform,
and it's not going to be transaction based. So those that's another consideration. But yeah,
those those platforms are getting used more and more. And | haven't actually asked the
fastened vessel. | don't | presume the passive investors like it, because it makes their
experience better. But | actually don't know because | don't, | don't talk to passive investors.
and they do make mistakes. If you have any service provider where that's a pattern of
behavior, well, then time to change horses. Okay. All right, good. So, Scott, Florida, you have a
question. You still with a Scott? Yes, | am. Sorry, | was trying to get the mute. Oh, you were
doing the Joe Biden trying to find the unmute of your conference with I'm sorry.

© Scott Florida 16:47

Thank you appreciated that reference. So hey, my question is related to putting the deal
together. I'm in talking to Mauricio and talking with you too Russ, one of the things that |
struggle with or I'm struggling with is I'm getting started is the deal that | see in front of me as
a 10. Home deal in Arizona. And so it's not a big deal, as far as the the total cost, it's 1.6
million. So I'm asking if | can put together a deal that would allow me to take down the 1.6
million 10 home portfolio in Arizona, and then either add in well, | should say, and add a new
construction portfolio as well, to that same deal. So the first part of it would be raised the funds
to take down the existing performing portfolio. And then the the second part would be to raise
funds for a build to rent scenario, either in Arizona through like Steve Olson, or something like
that, or even in Florida through somebody like Jean. Is that doable?

© Russ 18:04

Okay. Okay, so to kind of, you know, to come out of the weeds, because the properties in the
markets and stuff really doesn't matter. So germane to the question, the idea is like, Hey, I've
got a, I've got a preliminary deal that | want to put in my LLC, that I'm going to syndicate
because it's this LLC that you're syndicating. And then it can | can | add another deal to it later?
To the same to the same group? That that's really the question. So

© Mauricio 18:29

the answer is, from a security standpoint, absolutely. So there's nothing as long as we
remember, as long as we disclose everything on the front end, you can almost do anything you
want. So as long as we properly articulate the game plan, and this is this is going to be a two
phase process or three phase or however, and you lay it out, then that's not an issue at all.
From a marketing perspective, you may have some issues, which | think Russ would be more
apt to discuss, you know, the risk reward the risk profile of one investment versus another may
well, it's all real estate, but once new construction, so somebody may not be, you know, as
comfortable with new construction in the you know, they may love your 10 homes, but not like
the construction part. And so, you know, you may lose some people, but that's purely on the
marketing side. Is the 10 Homes off? Is there a loan on there? Is that an all cash deal? Because
if you're raising 1.6, you certainly could do that, you know, as a standalone, | mean, I've got
maybe people on this call that have done, you know, a portfolio raise where they go down, take
down 10 or 20, single family homes, all cash and so they raise a million or 2 million. That's
that's one thing now if you're getting a 80% loan on that, so you only really need to raise 300
grand and | understand that you need to add to that, that's not going to make financial sense
to raise 300 grand and yeah, so that so the so the two comments, | would simply have is
number one, just understand that they may have different risk profiles, which may affect your
investors. And number two, you know, is everybody going to be participating in everything? Or
are you trying to Guess the people who invest that goes towards the 10 homes, participate in
SO IT you're Managing a TUNA, Can you Can you Say that you're the cnieT investment Strategist’

© Mauricio 04:22

If you're managing, if you're managing a fund, then yeah, if you're managing a fund, | don't
have you | have a problem you had saying you're a fund manager because you are a fund
manager and we're complying with invest with investment advisory roles. And I'm not even
Saying it's the end of the world is call yourself a fund manager. | just think that potentially
opens up people nosing around when that's just a waste of your time and money that Why
even go there to somebody said wait a minute, are you an investor? Are you investing in
securities, your investment advisor, let's look more into it? If somebody looked into it, | don't
think it would be necessarily an issue. But why go through that nightmare? So | you know,
remember remember Brad and Emily and all of you guys are in Not really the offices of the
actual issuer of the security, you're you're the manager of the issuer, you're the CEO of the
manager of the of the issuer, issuer being the syndication LLC that actually owns the asset and
Is receiving the monies. Right. So again,

rR) Russ 05:14

To be clear for everybody out brand new, have a mint, you have a management company, and
you are the officer or the managing member, or whatever of the management company. And in
this case, they were branding themselves for the management company, right, and then in
your, in your hold on, | gotta get back here to Gallery, there we go. And then when you're when
you're branding yourself, if you're not speaking, go ahead and mute your mute yourself, if you
would, please, Caleb and socket. So you have if you just have to understand when you're
presenting yourself, if you're, you know, Russell gray Asset Management, LLC, then | could be
the president of that firm, or that entity, and that entity is the manager of the syndication. So
the way my corporate formality would be Russell Gray, President Russell gray asset
management, managing member or manager, probably not managing member manager of
Yeah, or pricey syndication

© Mauricio 06:24

ClO CEO, because, again, Peter has a license to actually represent or give advice to the
Individual people that out there in so he's got a whole bunch of regulatory issues, Brad and
Emily, I'm using them as example, you guys at this point are just representing your own private
company, it's your own little thing, like that's not You're not representing investors or making
any representation the investors, it's only until you have actually a deal going and you have a
syndication, but then then it's the your management company, or your company is the

manager of that issuer, and you're acting in your capacity as CEO of your management
company that then manages the issuer. So that's why | think it's not an issue. You know, in
even the investment advisory issues, it's really Brad and Emily are advising their fund. And
that's what causes the, you know, they're advising the fund to go invest in securities. So it's got
nothing to do with investors, per se, which is different from the Peter Schiff example, or
anybody who's registered to give advice. You know, it was giving investment advice to
individual investors. Okay, so
JO

JO

Jo

JO

because the last thing you want to have is unhappy investors. But yeah, the good just goes in
there, hey, you're not going to get distributions, we're going to take that money, we're going to
reinvest it in XYZ. And as long as you're forthcoming, and it's clear, and the investors are going
in with a clear, you know, with clear understanding what they're investing in, then you can do
it. And then the second one, | don't think | am. So what's this? There hasn't been if there's any
SEC updates, | usually, you know, grab them. So is there something you heard? That's where |
was going? | mean, is it? Is there something out that | just don't know about? Because | don't
know of any, anything that's specifically been addressed.

45:29

Now, | just want to make Sure just with, you know, if the thing is kind of self growing, or if it
goes as performance to keep growing, if there's any, anything different if that needs to be
treated any differently than it's difficult, it just

Mauricio 45:42

has to be disclosed. | mean, one of the questions | would ask you, if you're doing that type of
fund is, well, what's what's the exit strategy? Like is there are there withdrawal provisions,
because usually investors want to typically an investor has a time horizon, five to seven years
on real estate is kind of typical. So they're going to give you 100, grand, or whatever they're
going to give you. And they're going to expect to be tied up for five to seven years. If you're not
going. You're in single family. So a little bit different. But if you're continuously reinvesting
those profits and growing the fund, well, at what point are you going to exit? And am | going to
suddenly get stuck in there longer than | thought, so that always needs to get this close? And
it's, it's just, uh, it's just trying to figure out the answer. But from my perspective, as long as
they're going in with open eyes, you can do, again, kind of whatever you want.

46:23
Awesome, thank you. | had another question too. But Tyler, just

Russ 46:26
Okay. Yeah, let's get out of this question. We'll circle back to you set, Tyler.

46:31
Guys. So So | had a question.

46:34

When raising capital T for an apartment deal, you know, a lot of a lot of these deals now on
requiring people to go hard on their on their funds, or on the end? | guess my question would
be, let's just say that that deal goes sour, you don't get it, you lose the the EMD. Whose money
is it? The investors money typically, or is the syndicator put this money up front?

© Mauricio 46:59

Typically, it's your it's a syndicators money, the syndicator puts your earnest money deposit.
And yeah, if for whatever reason that gets lost, if you're that's part of your risk, and that's part
of the reason you justify your acquisition fee is that you're putting at risk earnest money
deposit. Now, as people do larger and larger deals, that earnest money deposit becomes larger
and larger, and it becomes a little bit more difficult to put on your own. So it is possible to get
an angel investor would | would call it an angel investor to come in and fund all or part of that
earnest money deposit. But because of the higher risk, of course, that they would, you would
typically have to pay them a premium for that, right, whether that's a higher interest rate, or
typically, the way | like to do them Is give them an interest rate, but then it's to somebody's
point earlier, do it as a convertible note. So that then that converts into equity in the deal, once
it goes through, and they're going to get some preferential treatment, you know, that equity, |
would actually simplest would be create a separate class just for them, and saying, Hey, you're
going to be Class B, because you put in all the risk, you're gonna have equity now. But instead
of getting a 7%, profit at 20, you're gonna get a 10% profit or whatever it may be, again, as
long as it's all disclosed on the front end for the investor, the rest of the investors, you can do
that. But 90% of the time, | would say the syndicator puts their own earnest money deposit,
and that's at risk. But it is possible to | was actually just talking about somebody today that was
they were thinking about raising a fund just to fund the earnest money deposits, right? So they
would loan that would raise a million bucks, that would be lent to them. And they would use
that money as earnest money deposit at some predetermined interest rate.

©) Russ 48:39

Yeah, so if you go in Tyler, and anybody that hasn't seen it, we did a video called How to refund
an idea. And in that we talked about the different phases, you know, A, B, C, and it, we
borrowed it right from Silicon Valley, and angel investing. And in that particular example,
Robert, and | had a deal where we needed to take down some land, we had no cash, and we
needed a $50,000 earnest money deposit. And so we went to a private investor, and we said,
hey, we're gonna raise the money to do this deal. We need to raise $2 million. It's going to take
us some time, but we need to control the deal. Will you put down a $50,000 earnest money
deposit and as soon as we raise some money, we'll give you back 70. And you can you can
either carry the 70 forward into the deal if you like the deal when we have it ready to go or you
can just take your money and run. And that's what he decided to do. He was happy to come in.
He was in the deal for six months, put 50 and walk was 70 after six months now was it we
raised a 2 million and did the deal. So that story and the way | had that whole thing worked out
is all described in the how to how to fund an idea webinar that is in the platform somewhere if
you can't find it, just email membership and ask them to point you to where it is. Okay, but in
there just be

© Mauricio 49:53

a little bit careful that that is in and of itself. It's a securities issuance. Right. So you know, |
think Russ mentioned six So you know, a note that's less than six months, I'm sorry, less than
JO

JO

JO

contact, you're responding to somebody who's coming to you. And they're not responding to an
ad they're responding to a personal relationship they have. Okay, that's a great question. And
good, Clara.

43:21
Thank you. Yes. Okay. Did you have anything on that that you want to add? Are you good?

43:26
Hope to send it my way?

Russ 43:29

Okay. All right. Let's see, Shep, you had another question. And | don't think we have any more
in the queue at the moment. So you want to ask your third question.

43:38

Yeah. So this one is related to fund. I've seen a couple of funds set up where where the profits
of the fund, the cash flow, and either refinance proceeds are reinvested back into the funds. So
that keeps getting bigger and bigger. Is it possible to have a fun setup this way, instead of
having to have the profits being returned to the investors every time there's a refi, or one of
the properties are sold? And then the second question is, are there any new SEC regulations on
this type of fun?

Mauricio 44:12
| feel like the second question is a trap question. But

Russ 44:17
he got himself a side hustle. He's now an undercover officer with ESS

Mauricio 44:21

first. The first question is, Same as we talked at the beginning, you can structure your deals
pretty much however you want, so long as you disclose it. The one thing | would point out,
another reminder, is that the investors are taxed on profits, whether they're distributed or not.
And so if you reinvest that, then they're going to get phantom income, because it's going to it's
going to count as it's going to count as income, but they're not going to get any money. And so
they're going to have that phantom income. So my documents anyway have a provision in
there that there'll be at least a minimum distribution to at least cover any of that tax bill
