JO

JO

JO

JO

35:35

No, | think you've pretty much covered | get it. Yes. The one other thing, and | guess it doesn't really?

Russ 35:40

Oh, do | think the banks are in trouble now. Now, and the reason is, is because the federal bail them out. Right?
They're too big to fail. So the dollar is in trouble, because the banks are in trouble. Have the banks played foolishly?
Yes. Absolutely. Is the silver market rigged? | think so. Right? Are the naked shorts in trouble because of the silver
shortage? Yes, absolutely. Is that going to create a collapse? No, not a collapse in the system, not a collapse in the
banks? Because | think the Fed will paper over all of it. What could it cause a collapse in the dollar? And | think that
that could happen. Quickly, because it's been happening slowly for a long time. We're at the end game. So sorry, |
stepped on you a little bit. But

36:25

no, no, that's fine. Answer the question.

Russ 36:28

Okay. Yeah, and it you know, when you get in these conversations with people, be careful, because people who follow
it are really going to know it. And they're going to know that you don't know it. So don't ever try to tell people you
know, you're talking about ask questions, or say, oh, it seems to me or Oh, I've heard and then find out how they feel
and what they think and react so you don't end up offending them by being too opinionated or exposing your
ignorance? Right? Better to be curious than confident in conversations. Okay, so we've got another 23 minutes. We
don't have to take the whole time. But that’s that is the end of the submitted questions. Does anybody on the call?
Have a question? Yep. JOHN.

37:13

So much a question. But to piggyback you brought up a few comments, and | happen to have the opportunity to ask
some questions. Very interesting guy the other night. | mean, I'm in a course and we had a guest speaker, and he's
the director of capital markets for Latin America for CB Richard Ellis. So his job. His team of eight people that he
runs, is to put capital into Latin America, and for Latin Americans to put it into the United States. And he said, the
last deal we just finished was that they started out to raise 350 million as just a fund to put into this is anticipatory to
buy into distressed hospitality assets in the US with Latin American money. The I've

Russ 38:13

heard I've heard that people are picking up bargains in the hotel space. | heard that somewhere I'm not sure.

38:17
the formation of your investment thesis can all be formed out of just paying attention to the news and listening to
thought leaders by going to conferences, reading, reading what they're saying? And then you have to, you have to
think about it. And that's what this session is about. It's like teaching you Oh, yeah, | didn't think about that thinking.
It takes a while. So it’s probably the hardest thing to figure out. But it will set you apart, because most people around
are just out there pimping their deal. And you know, they don't think about the direction of interest rates, they don't
think about the demographics of the marketplace. They don't think about the economic drivers, both macro and
locally. Much. They just look at the deal. The price, current numbers, does this make sense? What's the interest rate?
Yeah, it makes sense. Let's do the deal. And | would contend that there's a lot more to being a strategic real estate
investor, especially when you're managing other people's money, you got to see a little bit of the bigger picture. And
if you do that, and talk to people the right way, then it actually is a great marketing tool, because it opens up
conversations, and it shows you that you're just not a transactional guy. But you're a strategic thinker, and then a
relationship guy because you're having conversations with people asking them what they think. And of course, in the
process of doing that you're uncovering their biases, their beliefs, and where you think you may be able to persuade
them using what they already believe, or where you may be running into a potential objection that you're going to
have to deal with well in advance of making your offering. Okay, so we got six more minutes. Does anybody else
have anything in the scope of news, somebody maybe that hasn't spoken before? | think everybody kind of has, it’s
not a big group. But | want to make sure that you get what you came for. Going once, going twice. Alright, so we're
gonna call this a day. | want to thank everybody for your participation, we'll get this thing back up on the platform
here real quick. If you want to do a listen through. It's always best if you come with prepared questions, it makes it
easier for me, you guys to figure it out. | can, | can wax on for a little bit if you give me a little bit to work with,
especially on a topic that I’m interested in. But | don't want to make this a monologue. | want to make it as much of a
conversation. Enjoy the fact for right now that we're small, we can do this. We won't always be small if we go do
what we need to do, which means that at some point, it'll be less interactive. So take advantage of it, participate in
the community calls and be active in the forum. | know that we're still not super robust, get ready for a great
syndication event. We're going to have and bring your energy And hopefully we'll add a bunch of new members and
that'll spice the club up to okay. So guys, since it's all guys appreciate it, and I'll talk to you on the next one right you
guys have a great day. Hi everyone. Thanks for us. Bye bye
places like San Francisco or Manhattan has the prices that they have is because is because they have limited supply.
There's | don't care how much money comes into the market, there’s just nowhere to build anything. So if they bring a
bunch of purchasing power into the market, and the goal of having affordable housing, but the problem with
unaffordable housing is that you have no place to develop new inventory, then they're just doing $125 million PR
stunt. Because if they have an ounce of business sense, and they do they know it’s not going to work, but it doesn't
matter. It's not why they’re doing it. They're doing it because it's a drop in the bucket, or the money they have and it’s
just PR better. That is better. Randy. So did you have something you wanted to say? Or do you just want to boast that
you fixed your microphone? Okay, all right. Well, let that go. Okay, so any anything more on that one? Scott or
anybody? Okay, useful about now, can you? Yep, we can hear you, Randy. Can you? Okay, so the only nice. The only
thing | would say if anyone's really thinking about doing this is look at the other two markets, | would not even look
at Seattle, Seattle is in Santa in an absolutely horrible place right now. There is massive people exiting out of there.
So even though we have an inventory problem, there is a supply problem in Washington State. In most other
markets, we're starting to see that increase. So now all of a sudden, you've got that and you've got all you got all
kinds of rent control. | mean, they want affordable housing unfortunately, if they keep shooting themselves in the foot
in terms of how they're trying to go about doing this and it's doing nothing but causing a mass exodus of landlords,
people are selling off. | mean, I'm I'm just going nuts with with selling multifamily right now in our local market,
because we have people that are saying I'm out, I'm gone. We're down to close it out. So just FYI. Yeah. And in fact,
that shows up in the rental statistic, the the rents, | believe in the Seattle Metro are down like 10%, in Boise, they're up
25% or something like that. Yeah, clearly people are leaving. And that goes back to the other thing in market
selection, you know, you have to pay attention to what the policies are, you know, when we're on the show, we, you
know, we try to not get political, but at the end of the day, dumb policies, you know, and again, you don't even have
to pass judgment on whether they're, they're good or bad. You basically just have to say what is happening? In other
words, doesn't matter how you are | feel about it. You know, you hear me do this all the time on the show doesn't
matter, right? The people who are making the decision are calling Russ gray. Russ, what do you think they don't care
what | think. So it doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. Everything is right or wrong? What matters is how the people who
matter think it is, if a guy like Randy, who's boots on the ground, is telling me in the market of Seattle, that current
owners are listening because they want to get out because of what's going on politically. Then, for my purposes, it’s it
is what it is, right? | mean, | may say, yeah, does a dumb policy, doesn’t matter what | think what matters is that the
people who are affected by the policy, don't like it, and is forcing them to move that is going to create both problems
and opportunities, depending on how you're positioned. And then as a business person, you just have to ask yourself,
where is the opportunity? Where is the problem? And how can | avoid the problem and help my investors avoid the
problem? And how can | mitigate the or tap into the opportunity? And the other thing is, is that if you're going to
have a problem is that is it a permanent problem or shirtliff problem? When there's money that’s moving into the
hotel space right now? like really? Well, yeah, because they're betting that the hotel problem is gonna last forever.
And that at some point that's going to pick back up and so their buyers when everybody else is sellers are in distress,
right? 2008 like why are you buying houses now houses are down, da. | mean, | can buy a house below replacement
cost, unless you think housing isn’t going to be a thing in like 10 years. Right, and nobody's building any new housing
because housing isn't a thing right now. Therefore current inventory is worth a lot more But you have to be prepared
to tell those stories. And so in the news side, it's not just current events, but it’s current events in the context of history.
You know, George santenay has old quote, you know, those who don't study history are doomed to repeat it. Right?
The basic problem with most people is they stay only current. And so they buy low, they buy, they buy high and sell
low, because they’re going with the new cycle instead of counter the new cycle, because they don't recognize that it's
a cycle, it goes up and down, unless whatever change is a permanent sea change. If it's a change, and it's
permanent, well, then you got to adjust to that. Or if it's part of a big, dynamic, overarching glacier trend, there is
nothing you can do about, you know, like declining interest rates for the last 40 years, right? There's just, that’s been
a force. Now, it's created a lot of opportunities, it's created some problems. The flashback or the blowback on those
low interest rates, eventually is going to create a real problem, and maybe that's a good transition. Ben, are you on
the call? Ben, you are so why don't you go ahead and ask your question. Okay, Ben, there you are. Got a D? gotta

gotta unmute. Thanks for putting your shirt on.
JO

book, flee the bond market?

24:46

Because they're seeing an inflation scare with the rising price in silver. So | guess that's the way | was thinking about
that wrong.

Russ 24:56

No, no, you're not. In fact, | think | think the Last newsletter | did | talked about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Except | screwed
up and | had the, the soda cans backwards. And several readers pointed that out, which | appreciate it, we fixed it.
So the blog version of it that’s on the website is repaired. But But here’s the here's the thing. Okay, what | was getting
at and you're on the right track is interest rates, right? | mean, you just have to, again, you have to cut it all away. And
so the thing that is its interest rates, right? So what why would interest rates be affected interest rates would be
affected because the bond market would be affected, but the bond market factor because of interest rates? So that's
kind of a circular loop. So why would why would interest rates be affected because of inflation? What is inflation,
inflation is too much currency printed relative to the growth of the economy. Right, if if we are growing the economy,
if we're becoming more efficient, more productive, prices should go down, increased production, right relative to
demand, prices should go down, they print money to maintain inflation, a stated goal on the Fed website of 2%,
which means all the productivity gains that industry makes they steal with inflation. And they say we don't have any
inflation because the CPA does CPI doesn't reflect it. But to my point, if you compare it to historical money, we have
tons of inflation gold was up 25%. In 2020, silver was up over 47%. And that was before any this happened. Now
there's plenty of gold out there, but silver is consumed in industry, it’s used in solar panels, electronics, all different
types of places. And it's a pseudo it's a substitute for gold, not just monetarily, you know, poor man's gold. But in
electronics where gold would be a better maybe because it doesn't corrode and it has great content conductivity, it’s
super expensive, you can get nearly the same utility was silver for a lot less money. It’s why Silver's used, the point is,
you can't just bid the price up and pull silver out of the air because there's limited supply. So this whole thing is is
showing the difference between paper silver, which they can print as much paper silver as they want, just like money
versus real silver, which there is absolutely, physically a limited supply. Which means that if that supply needs to be
freed up from the people who have it, it’s going to have to get bid up to a point where people are willing to let it go.
So rising prices is not just inflation, it's inflation. It’s supply and demand, meaning more money from other sources is
chasing this, right, if I'm putting together a solar panel, and I've got to sell it at a certain price, | may have to reduce
my cost of metal or plastic in order to pay more for silver. Right? If | want to maintain price, otherwise, price has to go
up. So but the rising price of silver can be the decreasing price of something else as capital goes from point A to
point B. So that's supply and demand, you get inflation, more dollars chasing the same amount of production. And
then you have leverage, which is where you bring future dollars into the present when you bring future buying power
to the present. When you increase motivation through supply and demand for people to take existing money and
pour it into something and you end up you print a lot of money at the same time. That's a recipe for prices to rise.
Well, we know they're printing tons of money. Now we're looking at supply and demand. And so you got two of the
three factors really weighing on silver. And if people use silver as a proxy for inflation, true inflation, not using the CPI,
which is manipulated. But using silver, then people recognize that we have an inflation problem. And | think anybody
living on Main Street knows that we're beginning to have an inflation problem. And part of that is driven by a lack of
productivity problem. And that combination is stagflation. And a lot of people are saying that we're going there. So
coming back to what you're asking if interest rates were to rise. As a result, it would be because people who are
lending money said Well, | don't want to get paid back with dollars that are worth less. In other words, if inflation is
going up 10% a year, and | want to make 10% on my money, | have to charge 20% interest on my loan to cover the
inflation plus make my 10% profit and that’s just a one year loan. Right? If | make a one year loan, and my goal is to
get 10% of my money, and | know inflation is 10% | got to charge 20 to get my 10. And so inflation has the potential
to drive up interest rates and you say well, why isn’t that happening? Because the Fed is printing money and bidding
can join, even though you may not be a builder, that association, you may want to do that. Right? It shows you're
serious, because now you've got an association member in your brand building presentation Association. So if you're
a member, now, if you ended up talking to somebody from Amazon, or anybody out in the street, oh, yeah, I'm a
member of this association. One more level up of credibility. Okay. Now you may be able to offer to that association,
hey, if you don't have anybody covering this, | would be willing to cover it. Which means now you can call Amazon
say, Hey, I'm representing this association. | hear you're doing this, can you tell me a little bit about that? Like if | were
to call Amazon right now as press and ask about it, | could probably get some information. Now I’m gonna get
different information than you because you're coming in as a potential recipient. But you know, what, what are the
criteria? What are the qualifications? You know, how do you choose? You know, what's the process all that, right? And
so this is a simple way to build credibility for yourself very quickly for probably a minimal investment, and get the
inside track on information from both the source and probably the first people boots on the ground who are going to
hear about it. And if you're tracking how Amazon is approaching the problem, we can figure that out, then you know
who they're going to be talking to, maybe in an article, a diligent reporter who's done some homework for you has
figured out who to talk to at Amazon, Amazon spokesperson, you know, Suzy Jones, and then oh, a national or local
homebuilding Association, Representative David Smith, you're like, Okay, | got two contacts | can reach out to is all
that makes sense. You can get so much if you just pay attention to the news. All right. So is there anything that
anybody wants to share? Or Well, first of all, Scott, do you? What is that? I'm getting feedback from somebody when
| talk | sound somebody like listening to this on 3x. And | sound like Alvin the chipmunk. Okay, well, | don't know who
that was. | can't tell. But Anthony, your your D miked. Did you have something you wanted or unmuted? Did you have
something you wanted to say? No, maybe I'm muted on your end, but I've muted on my side. Okay. All right. Then
you didn't mute through zoom. You must have muted your mic on your own. Okay. Okay, Randy. Randy hubbs I'm
99% sure you're the problem.

14:11

JO

Whatever you're smoking must be Janna yelling at

© Russ 14:18

him in the background. Okay, it's it’s you, Randy. | just muted you. You got to figure that out. me. | don't know what it
is. If you want to chat me a question. You can do that. Oh, | see chat. | can’t read chat.

© Craig Kamman_ 14:35

Russell, | just put that in chat. | found the article. And | was just it’s 125 million in grants to minority led organizations
and public agencies aimed at improving the shortage of affordable housing. So it doesn't sound like it's going
directly to the builders. It's going to neighborhood associations communities. The nonprofit's it sounds like to me
Yeah,

© Russ 14:59

so If it’s subsidies, it creates purchasing power with fixed supply. So it increases demand with capacity to pay, it will
have an upward, it has the potential to create upward pressure on pricing. Now it could create what's called a
production gap, which means that you will get an increase in demand, and the prices will rise. And then developers
will see that and they will rush into capitalize on that increase in demand and they will build by increasing supply.
That's the way it works, then then the question is, as a developer is, you know, what are the zoning requirements?
What are the what's the planning? | mean, is there is there developable land, right? | mean, the reason you know,
better strategic business decisions about what to invest in how to structure the portfolio's that you're managing,
whether it’s on the finance side of the equity side, when you may want to think about adjusting your strategies if
there's been like some type of a major sea change that's developing, because one of the things we have to be careful
of is blind spots, right? We, you know, blockbuster GameStop. to businesses, that, man, they felt like they had it
dialed, they knew what they were doing. They knew their product, they knew their avatar, they knew. And when
plenty of evidence was in the marketplace that the world was changing. They didn't pick it up. Right? A lot of
companies just don't see the change. And then when they don't see the change, by the time it’s upon them, it's game
over because some innovative person who thought outside their box, figured it out and took market share. And
eventually, you know, they become a dinosaur. | mean, how in the world did Sears Roebuck who invented catalog
sales, the idea of selling to people who couldn't come to your store, get crushed by Amazon, they were asleep at the
wheel. Okay, so there's two parts to that. So with that said, let me flip that Let's go with you first Scott. So you saw a
headline. So why don't you ask your question?

&) Scott Florida 05:07

Okay, so the headline was Amazon jumps into affordable housing with $2 billion pledge. The highlight is, Amazon
announced it would commit more than 2 billion to create and preserve affordable housing at three of its main
employment hubs. Seattle, Arlington, Virginia and Nashville, Tennessee, it plans to invest in affordable housing over
the next five years in the region's. So my question is related to how does something like that affect the real estate
market from the standpoint of, particularly from my vantage point, single family homes? And second of all, like, how
do you leverage that?

© Russ 05:52

Okay. So I'll just go ahead and take a shot at it because this is asked a man or is not a mastermind. But if somebody
has something that comes to them, and they want to pipe up, feel free, because I'm certainly not the smartest guy in
the room. But | definitely am not afraid to have an opinion. So they mentioned three markets here, Seattle, Arlington,
and Nashville, and it's not Arlington, Texas, it’s Arlington, Virginia. So those are the three markets $2 billion coming
in? Well, the first thing is, is, you know, am | in those markets? Right? If I'm not in those markets, probably doesn't
matter that much. Although it may give me a clue, because if they're exhibiting corporate leadership, well, then
would Apple follow suit with Google follow suit, would any major player that plays Follow the Leader, you know,
maybe starting with the Fang stocks, which Amazon is a part of? Because these guys all like to, | gotta use the right
word here, | want to be politically correct. They all like to go out publicly and do things that have feel good attached
to them. And and so, now you're in

&) Scott Florida 06:57

the article actually rest later in the article, it does say that, | think Apple, Microsoft, and Google all have done

something similar.

© Russ 07:07

Yeah. And they may decide to partner up to, right, you know, like Amazon and Microsoft are both up in Seattle. So
they may decide, hey, we're in the same market, why don't we work together? Maybe they will, maybe they won't. So,
you know, you can set Google Alerts in your, you know, like, | have an email addresses specific for my alerts. And
when I'm interested in a market, you know, | might take, you know, Atlanta in quotes plus economy, in quotes, or real
estate in quotes. And then any article that talks about those topics pops into my inbox, and | can just scan those
JO

They started to build out to raise 350 million they had a stop at 550 because they had so much interest from Latin
American money. Want to get into that. So he mentioned hospitality. He did also miss mentioned the problem with
putting money into keys, you got to figure out how to get the capital stacks together to make these deals happen
because lending down there isn't what it is here. So most people you mentioned own their property outright. There's
no debt. So that was interesting in the big opportunity. big opportunity. | asked him about Billy's if he'd ever done
business in believes he said yes, years ago. He said he likes bullies. But for what he does, there's not an opportunity.
And he said basically, it’s an infrastructure problem. They can't do the kinds of big deals that they that they want to
do, because of the infrastructure. You know, the roads, the airports. Yeah. But he liked he liked the place a lot and he
thought he got a little enthusiastic Actually, he said if there was something to be done there he sees some high end
small scale. Eco tourism he thought believes is awesome for | just wanted to share that.

Russ 39:47

Okay. Well, you know, | think there's probably going to be some bargains in hospitality because it’s a super distressed
market and | don't think people's desire to vacation to travel has gone away, maybe under the current
circumstances, either not allowed to or it’s not enjoyable. The question is, is whether or not you believe this is a
forever thing, or whether this is a temporary thing. And if it's a temporary thing, then it could be an opportunity, you
know, you got to get the market and the team and all that stuff, right. The other thing | thought was interesting
about the whole Latin American thing. He says, Well, they're trying to get money, you know, into Latin America and
help get Latin America money into the United States with the same people are doing that, you know, then it's like,
okay, so you're going to spend your money to buy my property. And then I'm going to as quickly as | can take the
money that you gave me for my property and buy your property? Maybe it's like, okay, who's the winner? there? I'm
not sure. Right? | am still a big fan of the United States in terms of john. Yeah,

40:47

that's not exactly what | was saying. They they have to pivot. In other words, he does. He does it both ways. But
typically, they’re not moving the funds both ways in every market cycle. And, you know, sometimes the money's
coming this way. And sometimes, it’s going that way. Well,

Russ 41:05

the part that | think is great is looking at it from the lending perspective, that's why | mentioned lending and being
an opportunity, right? So if you have a bubble market, where there's lots of financing available, which is what causes
bubbles, then, and you're able to pull equity out of that market, and transfer it into a market that has no leverage
yet, then effectively, you have used leverage in that market by pulling alone, you know, you refinance property a in
the States, and take the proceeds in the equity and move it into property B, outside of the states, what have you
effectively done, you have retained your equity, but you've moved it from property a, and got a tax deduction in the
process of doing it, and moved it to property B, where it's maybe owning a piece of property free and clear, which is
very safe from foreclosure from repossession, you know, so it's an asset protection strategy. And then at some point
down the road, if financing becomes available in that market, then that additional purchasing power is going to give
you an equity equity wave, you can ride, you know, obviously, you know, I'm not here to talk about investing out
outside the United States or outside of the jurisdiction you're familiar with. But you do have to pay attention to the
economic factors, the legal factors, how safe and secure is your investment, all that kind of stuff. But yeah, there's
there's always going to be opportunities, that's the nature of real estate is that both on the on the debt side and the
equity side. And even on the income side, is that is that it’s not a one size fits all. It's not an asset class, it's not a
commodity, which means there's going to be markets, there’s going to be demographics, there's going to be product
niches, and I'm talking, you know, markets all the way around the world, where there’s going to be disparities and
JO

differences. You know, | mean, if you were dealing with somebody had a big fun down there, and they wanted to play
at a big level, and you're a syndicator, you might ask the question of the guy say, Well, you know, you said one of the,
he said, there's no, there’s no lending and people on their property free and clear. Do you think there’s an appetite for
lending? Oh, yeah. Well, why is it that nobody's lending there yet? Maybe he knows, maybe he doesn't know. Maybe,
but But well, you know, help me understand the risk, say, Well, let me ask you this. If if you were able to have lending
available, how would that impact your business? Is that something that you would be able to get behind and
promote? Would it help you? And if you said, yes, then say, Well, what if | were to go syndicate a large group of
capital to make these loans? Now, we might only be willing to come in at 60% loan to value, but it’s better than no
leverage. And we might have to come in at something higher than, you know, the US subsidized rate. So maybe 789
percent, do you think there would be an appetite there? And if he said yes, and like, Okay, well, you know, do you do
you know, the rules here? Or can you refer me to an attorney? In other words, you can create an arbitrage
opportunity. Now you can go to the US and find people with big portfolios of properties and say, well, you don’t want
to let go your property or the tax, you know, depreciation schedule or all that. But, you know, if you were able to pull
out your equity at three or 4% here and put it in a loan fund down there, and double or triple your yield. You know,
yes, you if you had to foreclose, you'd have this property, you have to understand that but assuming you like the
collateral, any reason you wouldn't want to put your money to work that way. Right. And so that can create a
syndication opportunity. syndication doesn’t have to just be equity. But the point is, your investments need to solve
problems both for the community, which is we're solving a problem there's no leverage in this community. And also
for the investors Hey, | need a higher yield on my capital. I've got idle equity not doing anything or other capital, you
know, | could go buy a bond and get one or 2% | just read that junk bond yields just hit today. All Time Low, slipping
below. | think 3% for the first time or for two percent | mean, just ridiculous junk bonds. And if people understand a
bond versus a mortgage, | mean, with a bond, if you're lending to one particular entity, if that entity goes broke, that
entity is broke, and you get nothing. And if you lend to somebody against a piece of property, and they go broke, you
get the property. And then once you have the property, you can sell the property, or you could rent the property, or
deriving income or you could carry back sell the property on a carry back and create a new note to a new borrower
against the same property, where you get a lot better security and along the way, your yields are higher. So | can
make the argument all day long, why private mortgages make a lot more sense than, than bonds. It's just that there's
no market for them. That's easy. But if you become a market maker, now all of a sudden, you have an opportunity,
you have something to value now you're not going in as a broker, you're going in as a principal, because you're either
acquiring these mortgages directly, or you're investing in somebody who does. You know, we got several providers in
the, the real estate guys network, like, for example, Steve Olson, at fig. They're doing developer loans, where you
finance a development security against a raw piece of land, they're going to develop, they personally guarantee it
with their balance sheet, they're going to develop it, they'll pay you 15% annualized on your capital, and you're in
and out in less than a year. Like, wow, of course, if they default, now you've got a piece of undeveloped land. That's
why you pay more, you know, we get another person who is aggregating single family homes, loans, and they're
paying 9%. And you could you with 90 days, notice you can be liquid? Well, you know, if you can borrow at three and
invest at nine, they're spread, right? So those types of funds can be created. And you can learn about them simply by,
you know, requesting information from these people about what they're doing, and look at what they're doing. Say,
could | do that? Maybe | could do that. So there's always opportunities, you know, and good on you, john, to be out
there, mingling with people and asking questions and saying, Hey, | heard some stuff. | don’t quite know what to do
with it. And of course, the purpose of the club is to have a place to come to get ideas about, hey, what can | do with
this information? seems interesting. My gut tells me there’s something there but | can’t quite figure it out. See my new

A7:22

con is this Assad? | asked him, | said, you know, if you're raising 550 million, | doubt you're, you're going after people
for $100,000. | said, What are you going after? What's your typical investor? He says, we're looking for $30 million.
That's what they're looking for. For an individual.
Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Clues in the News with
Russell G...

@ Fri, 10/22 11:32AM @ 55:26

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, bitcoin, problem, money, market, inflation, amazon, silver, question, opportunity, affordable housing, investors,

interest rates, thought, property, equity, lending, point, talking, buy

SPEAKERS

Russ, Craig Kamman, Scott Florida

Russ 00:16

All right, Hey everybody, syndication mentoring club, this is the February edition of Ask the mentors and we are
talking, it’s put down as clues in the news, | kind of call it current events, but whatever you want to call it, that’s what
it is. We got a good looking group of folks here. So I'm excited about that. Thank you for your participation, we had
two questions submitted ahead of time. And so I'm going to deal with those first, and then we'll just open it up to
whatever you're wanting to talk about. But before | do that, let me just have a little bit of a preamble. And that
preamble is that this is really a matter of leveraging what is top of mind for your investors, your investors are out
there reading the headlines, maybe more now than ever before, because of all of the things going on. And anytime
there are things out of the ordinary going on things that are stressful, economic swings, political swings, wars,
anything like that, anytime the stock market is passing out, it's there's going to be a lot of headlines. And so when
you when you see those headlines, it gives you an opportunity to ask yourself, what are my potential and active
investors feeling? What are they feeling? And the two investor emotions are greed, and fear. Okay, hope and
opportunity. On the one side, they're feeling optimistic, they're feeling bullish, they see opportunity, or, oh, my
goodness, they're freaked out, they're afraid they're afraid of losing money, they're afraid of the economy. Now you
have to look at that in the context of what they're holding. If they're holding things that you are trying to move
money from their current holdings to what you're offering, then you have to say, hey, based on what's going on, how
does their current holdings hold up? What are the strengths and weaknesses of their holding, compared to mine?
And what are the strengths and weaknesses and if you can find weaknesses in their current holdings, and strength in
yours, then you have the basis to move money from point A to point B, right? And the way you have that
conversation with someone is, you ask them, if they've seen the news, the headline, whatever it is, this is
conversational. Maybe as you're calling people are just touching base, hey, | saw this headline The other day | was
thinking about you, what do you think about that, don't tell them what to think, don't criticize their decisions, find out
where they're at. And they're going to express something which is either concern, which is, you know, fear or hope,
you know, which is great, the to investor emotions. And so, you know, when they do that, then you're going to pivot
off that, if they hadn't thought about it at all, and don't have opinion, to say, Well, you know, | was thinking about it.
And it seems to me that these types of investments based on what's happened in the news or | read that this big
fund manager, this article said, people who, you know, this type of investment was was, you know, maybe potentially
heading for some stormy seas. What do you think of that? And again, let them talk, okay, so | don't mean to make
this a sales training. But the whole point of this news thing is twofold. One is, so that you can engage better in your,
in your marketing, communications and in your sales interactions. And the other part of it is, is so that you can make
JO

JO

JO

21:28

Yeah, so basically, it was no silver is in the news lately? Yes, it is. And it seems to be picking up speed. Coming back in
the news in the short squeeze, was kind of fizzled out. And but now there's talks that we're actually running out of
physical silver around the world. And there’s some concern that if that happens, it can be trouble for the banks, with
all the short positions that are in place. So | guess basically, the question was, if that were to happen in the silver
supply ran out? What could happen to the bond market potentially, if that if prices rise rapidly? And that's seen as an
inflation scare? And also, do you think there's a threat to the banks that that are shorter? is silver going to be to the
banks? What GameStop? Was the Melvin capital, | guess, would be the question.

Russ 22:27

Okay, so there's, there’s a lot to unpack there, I'm gonna kind of hit some high notes. And I'm sure some folks are lost,
because it's complicated. It taken me years and years and years to get my mind around. And | can't say | fully have
my mind around it. But but but we understand that the basic nature of short selling is you're selling something that
you don't already own, and if the price goes up, and in this case, the price of silver would go up because of the short
squeeze, which means that especially in physical, so in the silver market, there's there's paper, meaning you're trading
options, contracts, and you don't actually have to deliver the physical metal. And those contracts are extensively
backed by physical, although there is a huge leverage amount ridiculous leverage amount, because everybody
playing the game expects that the people who are playing the game are only doing it to flip the paper to earn
dollars. And they're not interested in taking physical because they think the price is dollars. So I'm watching this very
closely for a lot of reasons, but not the reasons that you are, we're not the reasons you're bringing up. And then the
other thing is, is when you're talking to prospective investors, or you are dealing with a portfolio decisions, you have
to kind of get you know, sift away all the stuff that doesn't matter. And try to focus on the part that does matter. So
before we go there, I'm going to ask you, I'm going to ask all of you to think about this based on what you heard, but
especially you Ben, because you're the one that brought it up and put some thought into it. What is what is the most
important thing that could happen out of that that would matter to you and your investors in your portfolio

management?

24:12

| guess it would depend on the investor. But from the perspective of someone that's currently in bonds, if it did
impact the bond market,

Russ 24:21

how would it impact how would it impact the bond market?

24°25

Well, yes, | will the way | was thinking about it is if it's you know, everything's fragile right now and everyone's
watching me so costly. If people fled the bond market

Russ 24:36
flood meaning by fled | guess that was the way it was fled, fled the bond market. Okay, and why would they fled the
JO

Russ 47:43

Yeah. So let's say | bring you $30 million. What do | get? What do you give a $30 million? investor? Well, that's
another thing. And then is there meat on the bone for you to aggregate the 30 million and be in the middle? Maybe
there is maybe there isn't?

47:58

He mentioned, and | didn't have the | don't want to monopolize everything and keep asking him questions. But he
did mention the way we do it. As | mentioned, syndication says, well, we're not really doing the standard GP LP
model, because it doesn’t work down there. Because of the exchange, | did cetera. What we do is it's a code GP
model. So those investors also get to participate in the fees and such, | don't really know how all that works. But he
did spit that out there that that’s the way that they did that. That was a model that brought the yields up high
enough to have Americans in institutional family offices, those types want to do it. Otherwise, the exchange rate risks
and stuff was would bother.

Russ 48:51

Well, let's say on the topic of what's going on in the news, but that is a good example, that the news doesn't always
have to come through media news can come through insiders who are active in areas and then you pick up things
where you hear opportunities, and you hear problems in this case, john picked up that hey, this guy's got a problem.
Now if you really wanted to dive in again, | go back to this idea setting Google Alerts and paying attention who else
is writing on this? Who else is covering it? Who else is talking about it? What are their conferences might | attend? |
mean, you know, and the thing is in the beginning of your career, it's shiny object syndrome because everything is
interesting, right? Everything has possibilities but that's okay you got to do a little bit | my one and only rehab that |
ever did because | did the first one | thought I'm gonna do this and then after | did, | got out | want to do this. But But
| soent two weeks just walking up and down the aisles of Home Depot, not buying anything just looking for ideas. |
just wanted to kind of get the big picture of what all was available so that when | went into the project, | kind of had
an idea what what arrows | had in my quiver, if you will, or what paint | had on my palette. Cuz | didn't even know
what | didn't know. And so it's okay if you're in that explorative stage of your career where you're kind of trying to
figure it out. But I'm a big, big, big fan of watching the news and looking for clues in the news. Because there's a lot
of stuff that gets said. And if you don’t understand it, then you can learn by kind of reverse engineering it or trying to
understand it, or getting into conversation, | read this, and | didn't quite understand it, what do you think, and even
that type of a conversation can lead to prospective investors or provider relationships, because you're just talking to
people who are interested in a topic. Anyway, so | mean, I'm just a big fan of of the news, because you can learn from
it or you can, you can uncover when people state that they have problems, you can become aware of a problem that
a product niche has a community has a government has a niche has, you can look for potential clues that interest
rates, or banking systems or financial system, you know, and | spent a long time to me, it all comes back to the Fed
and the dollar. And | think that most investors do not have a plan for a failing dollar, when in fact, it is overtly,
obviously failing right before our eyes. And we are constantly being told to look at the CPI, which is, | think, a very,
very false indicator of the condition of the dollar, which is why | try and draw attention to other things. And then if
you can get people to agree with your investment thesis, which is that we need to find investments that hedge us
against loss from a falling dollar, and in fact, actually create profits for us as a result of the falling dollar. Then Then,
and then you go create investment opportunities to do that. And leveraged real estate is one of them. And then you
combine that with other things like Al like precious metals, or even energy as part of that mix. | mean, you know,
back back when we were talking about energy with Bob burn company, you know, when oil was 25 $30? | mean, it
just just went over 60, right? If you bought into those things, were producing streams of income, most people have
done very, very well. And you have to ask yourself when you know, oil was at 25, or $30, is this forever? Is this a

permanent situation? Or is this an opportunity. So you know, all of that information, the starting of that investigation,
up the bonds to artificially suppress interest rates, which is pouring gasoline on the fire if you listen to Peter Schiff. In
fact, Peter just did a guest episode on Kiyosaki show Rich Dad radio and he gave three shout outs to the real estate
guy. So that was great. And they talked about the cruise and what a great time they have. But Peter talked a little bit
about this. So my concern in all of this is the dollar. And now you have major hedge fund managers, major players,
mainstream people saying, hey, maybe, maybe the dollars days is the world’s reserve currency are coming to an end.
We've got the Davos and the great reset, we've got Rickards, having written about the great reset since currency
wars. So we don't need to go deep, deep, deep down into the rabbit trail. But there are going to be a percentage of
high net worth people, especially if you have people in your world that are our gold ore or precious metals, bugs. And
if you're going to the New Orleans investment conference and prospecting there, there's going to be a lot of them. If
you choose through your marketing, to engage in online forums, to get into Facebook chat groups to you know,
attend local conferences, or develop strategic networks with people investing clubs, gold investing clubs, maybe,
maybe if you really got your mind around precious metals, and can understand how to combine it with real estate,
which is one of my favorite strategies. Then maybe you even go to local dealers, local gold dealers and say, Hey, you
know, I'm, I'm doing syndication, | have a strategy where precious metals can be combined with real estate to really
hedge against inflation. And this would my new precious equity series that I'm working on is all about, and you may
have seen bits and pieces of it. But how'd you like to do some joint marketing, where we help people who own real
estate, purchase more gold and silver, because they understand what's happening with the currency, and how you
have people who are already invested in gold and silver, find out that they could own more gold and silver, by by, you
know, repositioning some of the current equity that they have on their property, maybe in their real estate or
wherever. Anyway, but the idea is you can use your knowledge to fish in certain ponds, right. But you have to take
time to get knowledgeable. And so you're doing that, and so you're on the right track. And | think it's useful. | think
that in the short go, anybody who hasn't read the newsletter should go back and read it. And happy, you know, not
just here, but in other places where | can wax on for a long, long time to kind of go through, but the key is, is that
precious metals is an indicator of currency devaluation, aka inflation. Inflation, if allowed to grow, eventually puts
pressure on interest rates in every private sector. The only place it doesn't put pressure on interest rates is, is
treasuries because the Fed can buy the bonds. And the Fed will print unlimited amount of money inflate in order to
buy those bonds, which is pouring gasoline on the fire. At some point, you reach a breaking point. | believe that that
breaking point will be evident when you start seeing people flee the dollar. Okay, you've got major corporations like
Tesla now Apple flirting with the idea. Bitcoin is over 45 $50,000 now, right? This is money moving in. candidly, and
you know, this isn't ready for primetime. But this is a private club. | think part of that is they just passed a $1.9 trillion
spending bill. | think politicians are corrupt. And it wouldn't surprise me in the slightest if some of the kickbacks are
being laundered through Bitcoin back to the politicians so they passed that passed the trillion dollar spending bill,
they send a bunch of it overseas to their cronies or cronies send it back to them in the form of Bitcoin and that puts a
bid Okay, am | seeing this happening? No, I'm not seeing this happening. But it could be happening. So you have to
be aware of the possibility in the context because if you're making a decision and you're saying Oh, Bitcoin is an
indicator people are fleeing the dollar. | do think some of that's true. But | also do think some of that is maybe from
other sources and you know, because I've been observing Bitcoin for a long time and I've noticed that for say for
example, when China instituted really harsh capital controls Bitcoin caught a bit and you know, if you were a rocket
scientist to figure out that was a way for people in totalitarian regimes to move money out. So again, you know, why
do you care about all that stuff? You investing in Bitcoin? No, but are there a lot of Bitcoin millionaires and
billionaires out there who might want to diversify out of Bitcoin into real estate? Yeah. And maybe that's why apple
and Tesla are getting into it because they realize there's a lot of money out there that they could attract into their
product if they're willing to trade in Bitcoin which means they need to have a float they need to have reserve they
need to have a way to operate in Bitcoin as a cushion as a hedge. Right? If you're going to sell and collect in Bitcoin,
and and in Bitcoin goes up. Well, you need to be a winner on that. You know, because you're giving away your
product and vice versa if it goes down. So currency hedging is a big part of precious metals trading. And anytime
anybody who does International Business anytime anybody is selling something in one currency, and earning or
reporting earnings in a different currency, and now Bitcoin is becoming part of that mix, | think we all need to pay
attention to it. | don't have a lot more to say about it than that. And | don't know. | mean, | kind of rambled on a little
bit there. Ben, did | kind of answer your question? Is there something else there a point that you were trying to make

or something that you felt needed to be said?
headlines. So when you hear me right about popped up in our news feed a lot of those needs feed news feeds | get is
just a an automated search that | programmed in Google that that proactively pushes stuff to my attention without
me having to go look at it, or even read newsletters that come in just comes in. And it’s just a whole collection of
headlines. And it's got no agenda because anybody that's curating a list or producing a newsletter, they're all doing
it for a reason. And so whatever I'm reading is filtered through the reason, when Google just sends me whatever, then
what I'm receiving is just whatever's out there. So it's a little bit less curated a little bit a just a less agendized. So
coming back to your question, anytime you got $2 billion going in a question is is how are they going to use it? You
know, if they're going to use it to subsidize employees and enhance our purchasing power, it will push prices up. If
they're going to use it to build inventory, it's going to increase supply. So you know impacts its economics, one on one
supply and demand. And obviously, what they're trying to deal with is affordability. Pete, if it was a government, |
would say 100% it’s going to drive prices up. Because it’s not the government and it’s a business. I'm guessing they're

smarter than that, and they're probably going to increase inventory. | have not read the article. So you tell me Well,

&) Scott Florida 09:01

let me give you one more paragraph here. It says the bulk of Amazon's 2 million commitment will go toward low cost
loans to preserve and build affordable housing. The online retail giant also says it will offer grants to public agencies

and minority led housing organizations

© Russ 09:16

Okay, so the giving free money to tenants at the very bottom of the market and picking up a tax break for doing it
good on them. And then the other thing is they're going to make loans to builders to increase inventory. Hmm, okay,
so there's an opportunity there if you wanted to be a affordable housing builder, you could jump in there and see
what it takes to sign up for some of that 2 billion that you know, as a fundraiser it's like hey, that’s capital. I'm in the
business of aggregating capital if Amazon's handing out $2 billion dollars, you know, do | want to go do that? So first
is market next is product niche and demographic and third is you know, well, yeah, demographic and then You know,
then then is that a business | want to be in if it is, then you got to go build relationships in that in this case, we're
talking specifically about development. You know, where, you know, where there’s going to be money going into into
the to development, you're going to need development contacts, you know. So, again, that | think, Scott, that’s your

thing, right? You you like to do development? Right?

©) Scott Florida 10:27

Well, it’s starting to look that way. Yeah. So you start out with that in mind, but as I'm moving down the project, that's
becoming more clear that that's what I'm going to need to do. So I'm doing a little of that.

© Russ 10:38

Yeah. So and then, and then, you know, another thing that you could do, and I'm, well, first of all, you know, you
should certainly set an alert to track this topic. So that anytime an article gets published, or Amazon does a press
release, you're going to see it quickly. Because if there is opportunity, you're not the only person out there thinking it.
So you want to be able to move quickly. So you want to be the first to know and the best way to know is as soon as
something gets published, it gets pushed to you. So that that's helpful. | think the second thing is Amazon may have
a way to it may explain how, what the process is, how are they identifying who the developers are? How do you
qualify? What's that process look like? Maybe the local building Association already knows that. If they don't, then
you can tell the local building Association Hey, you, first of all, | mean, if you're going to be active building, and you
