JO

38:27

Excellent. Thank you, sir. Yep. I've asked

© Robert 38:29

some of the inner circle members to also present some case studies, which typically are deals in the past. So you can
learn a lot from a deal that's already been done. But sometimes they're active deals too. And that's why we always
try to have somebody there with a turnkey syndication of some kind. You know, last time we had Wagner from
Orlando with that ground up construction deal. Now, we didn't know if he would be interested in that or have the
appetite or anything else. But just the idea that our group got first look at it before anybody else was pretty
awesome. So we're also encouraging those kinds of things. So that was certainly educational. That's our always our
primary motivation. But if we can put you in, you know, creative environments that are conducive to having business
done all the better. Okay, anybody else? We got some time left. | don't have to get on an airplane for three hours.

S Craig Kamman 39:24

I'll be sending you a couple deals by email for your input and see where we can go with that.

© Robert 39:31

Awesome. And then you also can submit a deal so that we do it in this format, especially if it’s not fully developed. If
you have structure questions, you know, | think we can use this format also to kind of vet the syndication financial
model, but common question people have is what's a fair split? Is it 8020? Is it 5050? Is it 9010? Or what about these
waterfalls? Are there types of arrangements like preferred returns and That would be a really fun thing to do as well.
So happy to take a look at things that way. Another learning opportunity is when you approached a deal and
decided not to do it, and we can re kind of reverse engineer it. So that’s another way to use the deal calls. But if you
have something, you know, obviously, my ability to respond individually to every deal is not very high. But in this
format, where everybody can benefit from it, for sure. And | think in the live room, too, if you're willing to present to a

live group of folks, that's a, that’s a great way it’s great practice, you get good feedback. And you'll have you know,
20 3040 really smart people listening to what you have to say,

@) Craig Kamman 40:39

okay, the one I'm working on right now | set it up where it’s a 7% preferred, and then split 5050, after one of the

investors thought that was a little steep for the split after. Do you have any experience on? And no, there's no general
rule of thumb. But does that sound steep to you?

Robert 40:59

Yeah. So that's a that's a big old, it depends, right? Depends on the deal. You know, from watching our, my
presentation on that from syndication event that are my first dozen deals, were 5050. The investors put the money,
we did the work, and we split the profit 5050. People could say that was rich, you know, but they made good returns.
So it's always the compared to what, there's two parts of it. The first is philosophy. And the general philosophy is that
most people, you, your investors, anyone you meet, should be more concerned with what they're making than what

you're making. So that's just general philosophy. If the questions keep coming back there, aren't you making a lot?
positioning is we're a group of independent fund managers focusing primarily on hard assets like real estate, and this
is this is our this is our group and and you engage with people that way so there’s some calendar for you. Alright,
everybody, thank you so much. We'll see you next time on our q&a deal and deal structure call
ready to send them an email to let them know that it's going to be a little bit longer because we were expecting our
first returns sometime in middle to late this year, and now it looks like it's going to be another year out before we
even get her first returns. So just

Robert 19:51

Yep. So | hear you completely and | was the same way early in my business. | didn't want anyone to do poorly and |
wanted to do everything | could Didn't we still operate that way. And we've changed our compensation on our deal
in Belize to be more favorable to our investors for a minimum of two years, and it's probably gonna be longer than
that just because we want them to win. But the challenge in that is just, it’s not your responsibility that COVID
happened, it’s not yours, or even their responsibility, even if it was their responsibility, meaning Carsten and
company, it’s not yours, that there are these delays, and your job is much more newscaster gathering information
and presenting it than it is being responsible. It's one of the benefits of doing this type of syndication, where you're
not raising money for you to have your company build and manage a product you're finding other folks. And that's
the value add you have. But it’s also out of your hands how it goes. And so a lot of that has to do with languaging, so
that you are on the same side of the table with your investors. Gosh, this is such a bummer. | mean, nobody has more
interest in this project than we do. And this isn't the news we wanted. But with the pandemic, here's what's
happened. So you want to make sure you do have the facts. And that’s why when it's a third party, | love to ask them
to have input, right? Give me a quote, give me a paragraph, get on a webinar with me. So they can hear it from the
horse's mouth, if you will. And | would think those guys would be willing to do something like that. But also just not
being able to carry the entire weight for where the project goes, you made your best estimate on what they were
going to be able to earn. Before there was a global pandemic, like before anybody was talking about it. So now
there's a change. Okay, well, here's what the change means. And | think you'll find that your investors are going to be
mostly understanding, that's what we found people have been mostly understanding, nobody's happy about it.
Nobody wants there to be people dying from COVID. Nobody wants to wear a mask 24 hours a day. Nobody wants
any of that. But it is what it is. We all deal with it the way we need to deal with it. And when you're in any kind of
business, you're going to be affected. You know, | have a business that was closed down by the governor of the state
we're in because our type of business microbrewery not allowed shut down. Well, when you have 40 employees and a
lease, right, and all of a sudden, the governor of the state says, You can't open your doors, but we're not going to do
anything about it, we're not going to pay your employees, we're not going to help your people. Now ultimately, you
know, we got some of that help. But that's just a tough situation to be in. So again, back to you're the team leader,
you're the communicator, you're the newscaster, you're not the you're not the person pulling the strings. So | think
that's a great lesson for everybody watching that we want to for the right kind of people, we have a heart for people,
we want to help them we know we do deals that people can, you know, find an opportunity that they weren't gonna
find before they get exposure to real estate or a market or a size of a deal that they couldn't on their own typically.
And all that's great. But we can't control the market, we can't control the global health condition, and we can't
control the US dollar. And as long as we can't control so we do our very best. And then as a syndicator, your primary
job is to shepherd your people through whatever happens to communicate to explain to be empathetic, sometimes
they get upset, and they have a right to it’s a lot of money. | remember | was in line to report, my bag being last

came into a flight and the baggage carousel stopped and no bag. And in front of me is another guy who's lost his
bag and he is just screaming at this lady. Like it was her fault. And she personally lost the bag. And you know, he left
finally and | came up and | said, Wow, that was tough. And she goes, Well, he’s right. We lost his bang. He has a right
to be mad at me. And it's on me. But | get it. And that’s the point you get it when they say but you said Yeah, | did. |
said that that was the plan. And it was the plan before anyone ever heard the word COVID. That was the plan. But in
the light of day, here's what's happened. And more importantly, here's what we're going to do about it. And you can
decide you maybe there's some middle ground, maybe Hey, obviously, there’s not going to be a return, because we're
not going to receive any return. But what I'm going to do for you is we're going to make the first years pref, 10
percents, that eight, or we're going to this year that we have no income, we're going to accumulate a little two or 4%
That's going to add to your account. So you're kind of middle ground, it would be a false expectation for your
investors to think that somehow you could manufacture 8% out of the deal, when in fact you just told them that
JO

Craig Kamman 29:20
Actually, that was really helpful. Thank you.

Robert 29:22

Right on. Okay, anybody else? deals and deal structure. We can talk about any of these things that maybe makes
sense. There's all kinds of different parts of the deal and different things to consider. There's the pre deal when I'm,
you know, just thinking about a market, there's getting something in contract. You know, one of the elements that
comes up as a syndicator when I'm buying a property in my own account, I've probably already talked to a lender
before I'm in contract. That's a smart idea. | probably know how much cash and capital | get my hands on if | had to,
| probably could Run up, you know, net sheets, so | know what its gonna look like. And I'm not surprised when you
know, the loan takes 30 days or whatever, and | need to get inspections. And so |, you know, ask for a 45 day or 60
Day close of escrow. What when you're syndicating, you have this one other element, which is | got to raise the
money, hard to raise the money before you have a deal, hard to go raise money for a deal that you don't have locked
up. But it's also hard, especially in an environment like we've been in to get a seller to give you all the time you need.
So sometimes that's the chicken or the egg part of it, and you want to make sure that you can raise all the money in
the time allocated, worst thing is to have to go to a seller and say, Well, I've raised three quarters of the money, Mr.
Seller, and we're supposed to close on the first of the month, but I'm not gonna be able to do it. So there's some
proactive ways to handle that. We can save that for another session, or we can talk about whatever you guys want.
But the point is that when you're setting up the transaction itself, so the deal structure of the transaction, you have to
be minded as a syndicator. And you have to realize that things like you know, people getting their professional
counseled, review the documents, and people moving their money from their money market account, into a account
where they can wire the money, all those things take time, and they generally take more time than you expect them
to. So you want to be preparing for that it's a big part of this part of the business is when it's your money and your
own account and your qualifying, it’s a lot easier soon as you open it up to syndicate, even once you've been
syndicating for a while and you've got a good book of business and you kind of have a gauge, you know, we could
probably raise 2 million, we'd have a hard time raising 10 million, okay, well, you get a three and a half million dollar
raise, you're like, alright, this is gonna stretch us. So you better make sure that on the deal structure side that you've
got that accounted for, you don't run into a situation where you're putting investors money at risk, you probably don't
want to do that. Anyway, most of your documents are written in such a way that you don't release any of your
investors money until you close on the deal. But not always, sometimes part of the risk that people in a fund, for
instance, take is that you're going to be out making deposits, you're going to be out doing due diligence. And if
nothing, nothing ever happens, it still costs money. So you just have to be a little more aware when you're syndicating

and you're buying in your own account. All right, what else? Any other questions or comments or anything?

32:29

There ever have a question regarding the deals and deal announcement? Is there a process that we go through to
get those deals put out to the group?

Robert 32:38

Yeah, so if you have a deal, we have a couple of ways we're starting to do some of these turnkey syndication
opportunities, we're calling them but really, it's opportunities to co sponsor or sub syndicate or any of that. And the
big picture on that is, as the group grows, we would love for us to help each other, somebody is doing a bigger deal
than they're usually capable of doing. So they bring somebody else on either in an advisory capacity or a co sponsor,

or they take a piece. There's a couple of interesting, you know, deals like that, within the group. We're working on
would do it, frankly, | mean, wasn't you're doing you went down to Paraguay, and you did your due diligence, and you
found an opportunity and all that was pre COVID. So how it shakes out in the light of day. | mean, it is what it is. And
part of the premise here is that your investors are part of your company, whether it’s an LLC, or you structure it, it’s
not you against them, it's their part of it, they get paid first, which should feel good to them. But if nobody got paid
at all, then manufacturing return really isn't a fair reflection of the project or the property, in my estimation. So the
other thing is, it's a slippery slope. When investors start to recognize that you're willing to make up the difference if
the deal goes bad. They aren't going to give you more money if the deal goes good, right. So this is part of the
reason that we tend to make sure we've got either accredited or sophisticated investors in a deal. And we've asked
them the questions and gone over the questionnaire to make sure that this is money they can afford to lose and
make sure that they understand the risks and all of that. And although many of us didn't have global pandemic, and
our risk factors, you can be sure it’s there going forward. So | think that's the thing that to figure out when a deal
slows, and they always do, there's always a reason, Kenny McElroy says delivering bad news builds trust. So when you
go to your investors and say, Hey, guys, sorry, this happened. So we're here to help get through it. And mitigate to the
degree we can. But | don't think you can absolve people from risk. And you can, you can, but I'm not sure that that's
the best long term methodology, | hear where your heart is on it. And | get that. But | also know that if you had 100,
deals like that, it would be really hard to do, especially as long as you know, if you want to do cumulative, it still has
to be money coming out of the deal. You know, you don't want to have to reach into your pocket and feed a deal
because it's not going the way it’s supposed to. That's part of the risk of real estate, any real estate. But certainly in a
pandemic era, which just stuff is coming down the road, you know, we're in lots of these situations with properties,
I've got a lot of multifamily where my tenants are paying love that. But I've got properties and my tenants aren't
paying, that’s a problem. Okay, | can cover some of the mortgage for some of the time, but eventually, it’s going to
be an issue. And when you're in a syndication, it's not your issue, as the manager, it's the issue of everybody who's
involved, the job of the manager, is to just find out as much as possible, communicate as much as possible, develop a
game plan and make a decision. So very complex, when things are like that, you know, you're involved with us in
Belize. And in Belize, the airport was closed for eight months. So people can't get into the country, while they
certainly can't stay at our property or anywhere else. So people have been amazingly understanding of that, like,
well, da, more so than even when there was a sewer delay, or delay with BWS, the bliss water service or, you know,
whatever the delay is, it's like, well, what are you guys doing that? And are you paying attention with a pandemic,
people are like locked at home under understanding it. So | think it's it's about how you language it, | certainly would
be leaning on Carsten and company just to find out what and when and how and where the bottlenecks are, you
know, we are always in favor of bringing somebody in to help. So a webinar, or maybe it's just a newsletter that you
do that has quotes from them or something so you know where the issue is. But | think in general, the idea of a
preferred return is good in that everybody's got their money somewhere, having a preferred return as a way to say,
Hey, mister investor, at least you're going to have this hurdle rate of 8%, or 6%, or 10%, whatever your deal is, if we
do really well, you're going to make more than that. And if we do super well, or we sell down the road, or whatever
the exit strategy is, then you're going to make even a better return. But that preferred return is really just kind of, you
know, be the cost of funds for them. I've got my money here, now it's making three or four or 5%. Now, if | can pull it
over to this deal, and | make a guarantee of five or eight or 10%. And again, it's not really a guarantee, it's a
preferred return. So it's the first distribution, then that appeals to people as opposed to just a straight split. You know,
it's the same thing in the real estate leasing business, you can lease a property as a tenant by the square foot by
month or by the year. Or you can have a percentage lease, which is 6% of my sales | give to the landlord, or you can
do both, you have a minimum that you pay kind of no matter what you do. And then as your sales go up, the
landlord shares in it, too. It's the same kind of thinking that you want your investors to do well, when the project does

well, but you want to make sure you're protected to the downside as well. So that help or just cloud the issue.

AQ 19:11
No, that definitely helps. Because part of it, for me is just wanting to give my investors the return that we originally

projected. And obviously | realized that we're not responsible for COVID and neither was Carsten and his team. But
some of the miscommunication of course doesn't help. Because | haven't broken that to my investors yet. I'm getting
JO

kind of strictly is uncovering everything that you should be able to tell about a property during the time that you're in
escrow. But due diligence, we believe starts before that when you're analyzing the market, the neighborhood, the
product type, the demand. And then the due diligence part you still need to do. Those are, you know, the inspections
or getting professional opinions and all of those things that are going to impact your deal. Then you have the
financial model. So in a syndication, we're going to have some split, we're going to do some work, and the passive
investors are going to put in some money, there may be other members of the team that are doing work. Sometimes
you've got a co sponsor somebody who's doing better a slice of the of the deal, and they're going to get paid for that
in a different way. So how we set up our syndication and the structuring event is independent of the property, but the
financial model is going to be critical. For instance, some of my early syndications, you guys have all been to the
secrets of successful syndication. We're ground up development projects where we would raise capital, build
something, sell it off, and when we sold it off, that's when we distribute the returns. So there was zero cash flow for
two years, or three years or a year. to half depending on how long it took, and the investors realize that they weren't
buying a cash flowing asset, they were buying a piece of dirt. And we were putting together the plan and the
construction and ending up with something that was worth a lot more, having done all that. But the financial model
was you put your money in, you wait for a period of time, and then your money comes back, hopefully with friends.
Now, if you're buying an existing apartment building, that could be very different. The financial model there would
include cash flow, maybe part of your plan is to, you know, raise some money for capex, improve the property, get
the cash flows up, that's a great plan. But there's could be some cash flow to start. So it just depends on the property,
the nature of the property. Sometimes we look at things like agriculture, and there's no income in the first few years
because they're planting and growing. And then all of a sudden, you start to see the dividends. So what is the
financial model of the deal? That's part of our deal structure. There’s what the financial model of the property is. And
then there's what the financial model is for your syndication? We call that the syndication structure. So | guess
they're really two things, the financial model for the syndication? What happens when money comes in? Where does
it go? How is it distributed? What's held back for costs? And the syndication structure is, how do you interact with
your passive investors, we're big fans of having the passive investors be the A shares or a class and the syndicator,
promoters, the B shares. That's not magic. I've looked at plenty of deals where it’s the other way around, the people
running the deal without a shares because hey, I'm a I'm first. And | just think it’s a subtle thing. But investors feel
better when they're that a shares, again, makes no legal difference at all. But think, think about that. Sometimes you
we've talked about multiple shares, or much multiple classes. Sometimes you raise money in such a way that if
someone brings in, say, 100,000, they get one set of benefits. But if they bring in 250 or more, they get another set of
benefits, perfectly legal check with counsel, as long as you treat everybody the same. Anybody has the option of
doing either. And that's just up to you about how you structure it. But the part of structuring the syndication is also
what kind of entities are you using who's really in contract? Who's qualifying for the mortgage if there is one who's
not? Right? So there's a lot to be thinking of there. And then | think the big picture is just deciding what you're
intending to do with the property, what's your plan A is, but thinking through what potential Plan B's might be, as
well. So deals and deal structure we talked, this is, | think, our third call like this, we talked at first about, you know,
specific customer specific deals, and you're always welcome to submit those you don't have to do in advance, it'd be
great if you would, so that | have a chance to kind of look over it. And I'm working on a template that we can use,
that's just kind of a generic real estate template. There's no magic to it, everybody probably has one they use, but
just for some of our newer students to be able to kind of put everything into a into a format and discuss it. So with
that preamble, let's open it up, see if anybody has anything they'd like to ask or comment on or ask a question
about. And you can just go ahead and talk because | can't see all right now.

08:16

Robert, is Anthony. Hey, Anthony. Hey, | don’t know if you're aware of this or not. But we did decide to do a
syndication with your buddy Carsten down in Paraguay. | did hear that rumor. Excellent. So because of COVID, it's
going a little bit slower than we normally have raised money, we've got about half of it raised raising 1.1 million. And
I've had quite a few people that really liked the investment that we that we haven't structured, but they are
concerned about COVID and how long it's gonna last. So they're, they're holding off. But anyway, one of the ways
And aren't you this seems like a lot of money to you. That's just kind of a red flags. And if they're this much trouble
now, what are they going to be like in the middle of the deal, because you don't want to be constantly justifying your
fees. You want to be able to justify your fees. And the first part of any negotiation is just how you approach it. You
know, the classic negotiation technique that works the best and has for 1000s of years is the flinch. And the flinch is
when you say, Oh, how much is this? They go, it's $250 $250 Oh, | can do it for 199. Like just one little two second,
flinch can usually save you 10 to 15%. So you don't want to be that person, you want to be absolutely ready for the
flinch when they go to 100%. Like | know, it's not that much is it? Me, you have to be ready for it. And you have to go
the other way. In the country of Belize, the average Real Estate Commission is 10%. And when | teach people that on
our discovery trip, they're surprised in their market, it might typically be six or five, or whatever it is in Belize, it's 10%,
five per side. And | used to work with a real estate agent down there every time | would tell that story. He'd go, Yeah,
and we haven't had a raise in years. Right? It's just perspective. So in general, that's just my philosophy. If they start
to they're trying to get in your pocket, I'm going to suggest that either you haven't set the expectation correctly, or
they just might not be a match. The second thing is always come back to what would be fair, fares are a great word.
It's a hard word to argue against when you ask somebody, you know, | don't know. | mean, you're bringing the idea,
I'm bringing the land, you're bringing the general contract, or I'm bringing the money, I'm suggesting 6040 What do
you think would be fair, and when someone's just trying to negotiate for negotiations sake, it's hard to argue against
what would be fair. So you don't want to be justifying, but at the same time, you do need to explain your thinking
behind it, here’s my thinking, we're gonna do most of the work, in fact, we’re going to do all the work, you're gonna
supply the money, and that's important. But you know, money is everywhere. But what's not everywhere is a deal like
this in the three and a half years, it's taken me to get into position and the relationships | have in this area with these
vendors or with the city or whatever it is. And so we all bring something to the party. And the great thing about a
deal like this is everyone gets to benefit. | really want to honor your money. And so that’s why the very first 7% That
gets made, whether we make 2% or 20%, the first 7% goes to you or whatever amount of money we make. After that
you're doing you're putting money in I’m doing the work. Hey, splitting it down the middle seems pretty fair to me.

And if you say like that and you're sincere and you look straight out and when you do, most people are gonna be
okay, | get that. Now, I'm not saying 5050 is the answer. Sometimes it’s not kind of depends on the deal. | will tell you
in full disclosure that those deals that we did, we had a lot on our side of the equation we were personally
guaranteed and qualifying for all the mortgages. And these were mortgages of 510 $15 million. So pledging our
personal assets, our balance sheet, our credit history, and our reputation was a big thing that counted for something.
We also had the ideas, that intellectual property, we had a sales team that essentially sold every building before they
were completed. So we run a lot of the risk out of the deal. And that was worth something. We had very few people
complain, in fact, it was the other way around more people referring their friends, we had to say no to people, and
people had this feeling, which isn't good. It’s a problem. And of all the problems it's not a bad one. But people have
this feeling, gosh, if | don't, if | don’t decide tonight, I'm not going to get into steel. | don't like having that kind of
pressure, but it worked for us. And so you just have to in your heart of hearts go is is that fair? Think about what
you're doing, not only to get into the deal, but as the deal goes, What are you doing? And is that is that? Does that
seem fair to you that you would get half after they got 7%? Well, you gotta put some numbers on it. Okay, what if it
made 9%? Okay, but made 9% They got eight, the preferred seven and half of the two, you got paid one. So it's not
5050? In that case, they're making eight points. You're making one point you're making less than 20%. Okay, maybe
that is fair to me. But now what if it makes 15%? Okay, so they make seven, and they make another four and you
make another four? Alright, so they made 11. And you made four? Is that fair? Right. So you just kind of play the what
ifs before you go to market with a structure. Just kind of think think on the PAs stress tested positive and negative,
whatever, May 30%. Well, now they get the first seven. And now we're going to split the next 23. Okay, wow. So just
do the what if scenarios and then focus on the most likely scenario, you want to almost negate the two extremes and
just focus on what's the most likely scenario because sometimes what they hear is 5050. That sounds a little rich,
perhaps, but not after you paid them the first 7% Meaning you've got zero until the deal returns 7% of it onerous
terms, six, they get all of it returns five and a half, they get all of it returns four, they get all of it, it returns seven and a
quarter, they get seven and an eighth. | don't know that that sounds rich to me. So it's part it's also perception is
reality, the way they're focusing on it. Maybe you've heard the story, but | think it's a good one. And it takes 30
seconds to tell my real estate broker who was a mentor of mine listed a property he usually didn't listen. So this is a

good friend. And they said, What can you list it for us, he listed the property at market was strong. He sold it in three
days. They are looking at the settlement statement. And his friend is not just some dude, it's a friend, the guy he’s
asked to please do this job for him says, Wow, that's a lot of money for three days work looking at the Commission
on the statement, to which my broker said, Oh, I'm sorry, did you want me to take longer? | gets perspective. So first,
understand and feel good about the splits. Second, have a rationale. Not a justification, but a rationale. You know, a
lot of people ask me that, here's why we structured the way we do, we want to make sure that the first win goes to
you as an investor. Now, we also have to make money. That's why we're in the business. That's why the preferred
return is in 12. But the preferred return seven because that's a pretty good hurdle rate for us to work for, | have
incentive to bring in much more than that, because | only get paid if we make more than seven. Now let's say we
make eight, awesome, you made seven and a half. And | made a half. And I'm pretty much doing everything except
writing the check. Now | also write a check. Because | put my own money in my own deals. So I'm making seven on
my 100, just like you're making seven on your 100. But on the work I'm doing as the promoter. I'm not making very
much money compared to you. So you can always turn it around. It's not to be sneaky or manipulative. It's just a
really have your mind around this is my value proposition. | want to work hard, but | want to get paid for it. And what
| love about a model that has a prep is it gives you the incentive to work hard because you only get paid past a
certain amount. If you just got paid 5050 from the start. Like we used to be like, Wow, it’s all right. Let's see how it
goes. Oh, no, | mean, we made 50% of the return we wanted a big return to you could almost argue we wanted it
more because we got 50% of it. If | only get 10% of it, how hard am | going to work and that's the other angle. Well,
what what what do you think would be fair? And they go well, 20% Okay, so you think it'd be fair for me to find the
deal that the deal, put it together, put my own earnest money in, get the bank account, the structure, engage an
attorney, you write a check, and that's important. We need the money and then 20% After 7% So let's say the thing
makes 10 Okay, so you Get your seven other remaining three, | get 20% of three or six tenths of a percent. That
sounds fair to you. You see where I'm going with that? It's hard for people to argue against fair. So when you say
Would it be fair for me to do all that work and make six tenths of a percent is that? Does that seem fair, they have to
be sincere about it, you have to mean it, you have to own it. But it rarely comes down to what your guess is, on the
return. What the return is, is what the return is going to be pro forma is just a fancy word for made up, we think our
best guess, but we never hit performance, we hit below or above performer. And what a preferred return does is
protect them a lot more than it protects you. So | almost think a preferred return is a tool to be used occasionally.
And not always no part of us because I've rarely personally done one, | get why people do. And | certainly
understand from the investor's point of view that they've got cost of capital, whether it's opportunity cost or real cost.
And when they give it to you, the fact that they get a little extra something for the money, you get a little extra
something you ever promote. That's to make sure that you can fund the Bible operations at the beginning, they get a
lecture stumping for their money, which is the hurdle or the the pref. And then we're going to split on some basis.

That seems fair. That help. No, it does no.

Craig Kamman_ 51:31

Yeah, it does. I'm trying to I'm working off my phone here. So I’m very cumbersome right now. So it does help, I've got
to look a little closer at that. So

Robert 51:40

yeah, and it may be that it is too rich, | don't know, you know, if you're doing a deal where you're really not doing that

much, you're just pointing to somebody, and they're doing all the work. Okay, maybe that's not, | don't

Craig Kamman_ 51:50

think it's too rich, | think | just have to present what I'm doing to him. So
Feb 11,2021Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Deals and
Deal Struc...

@ Mon, 10/25 10:44AM @ 57:24

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

deal, investors, syndication, people, money, structure, return, property, passive investors, syndicating, syndicator, part, preferred,

raise, belize, split, fair, real estate, question, paid

SPEAKERS

Robert, Craig Kamman

Robert 00:16

All right syndication mentoring club Welcome to our Ask the mentors q&a crawl on deals and deal structure for
February of 2021. I'm your host for the call Robert helms Good to see we have some folks on live, you're gonna learn
some stuff. If you're online, you're gonna learn some stuff if you're watching the replay, but these are monthly calls
where we go out to the members and say, How can we help? What are you working on? Where do you need insight
or input or any of that, and it's perfectly fine to have a live deal you want help on? Remember, everyone's under
nondisclosure. It's also okay just to talk theory, or if you're trying to wrestle with how you structure a deal and any of
that. So, with that, | think we'll go ahead and just open it up here to anybody that has a question, fire away. And that
concludes our call for today. No, just kidding. All right. Well, | said earlier, | had no prepared notes. But that's not
exactly true. Anticipating we might have a situation like this, run us through some thoughts on deal and deal
structure, and then that'll hopefully foster discussion. So the first part of this is, when we talk about what is or what
are the elements of a deal, when we say deal or deal structure? What does that mean? So it's not a one answer. You
know, you think about well, the the actual transaction that's got structure to it. And then there's the syndication part,
and that has structure to it, then there's your legal structure, what are we talking about? Well, the answer is, yes, all of
that. So the elements are the market. And while you might not think of the market as part of your structure, it’s an
important part of your story. Just anytime you're raising money, people are interested in ROI, and timeline and
minimums. But the thing that really engages people is to have a story, and the story often resolves revolves around
the market. So you want to have a good knowledge base of the market, which would be everything from the MSA
down to the specific sub market and why you like it, the property itself. So sometimes it’s a straight ahead, simple
fee, simple purchase. But not always, syndication isn't just for real estate deals. There are convoluted structures
where we are acquiring part of something or interest in something. And so that's part of your structure consideration,
especially if you're the person who is responsible for group of passive investors, the transaction itself has structure. So
when you're writing an offer, there are some things that you often do when you are a syndicator that you might not
need, if you're just buying a property in your own account, we could certainly talk about some of those things. Then
there's the capital stack, where's the money coming from, so the capital stacks all the money it takes to buy a
property, and that could be simply debt and equity, we're going to borrow money from the bank, and then we're
going to raise investor equity to make sure we have the downpayment plus additional costs and things that we need
to get the thing off the ground. But there can be other parts of that sometimes there's multiple classes of equity,
sometimes you have different classes of debt, you have mezzanine financing. So a lot of things to consider there,
when it comes to how the deal is structured. Then there's the analysis and due diligence. So you know, due diligence,
things delayed. It's not coming we are going to see income. Well, where's that money gonna come from? Well, it's
gonna come from the future. Well, that’s their future too. Right? So that's what you got to be careful of is you since
you can't control it. You can't take responsibility for all of it. You can take responsibility for finding out For considering
options for the reporting to them all that but it’s really not your job to make them whole on an investment, you're in
the investment just like they are. Okay, that was a good one, man. A lot of stuff in there. Who else has something on

deal structure? Anybody else? Or if you have a comment on Anthony situation?

Craig Kamman 25:26

See, I've got a question about qualified investments. I've got an investor who's asking if it can be made qualified. Is
that a possibility? Or do we have to do a structure through like EQ RP or something like that?

Robert 25:40

Yeah. So that's kind of a can of worms. And there's, as far as | know, there's not a hard and fast rule about it. But as
we're seeking out particularly qualified types of investors not to use that word to confuse but investors that are more
fluent or have tax driven reasons why they're investing or whatever it may be, then sometimes being able to bend a
little bit in our structure to allow them in is worth doing. | don’t know if you watched, but on the platform, | believe is
a deal that low Hornbuckle did, where they decided to do it, the found out after they already acquired the property
that was in an opportunity zone. And a lot of people were interested in opportunity zones when they were doing their
raise. And so they ended up doing two classes of investment opportunities, zone investors, and non opportunity's own
investors. And in hindsight, | think they'll do it differently next time. But the idea is, okay, somebody that needs that,
it's a great carrot for them. So we ought to set our structure in such a way that we can accept that kind of money. So
it's probably a legal question, and maybe bring it up from resale on the on the legal q&a, | don't know enough about
it, to really have an answer. Other than that, anytime you want to bend a deal, like we, in the past have taken in 1031
money. So someone has money coming out of a 1031, they can not just invest in shares in your LLC, typically, they
have to invest like kind of has to be a like kind exchange. But there's ways to do a syndication where you have some
Buddy come in, and you wouldn't do this for 100 grand. But as someone has $2 million coming out of a tax free
exchange, you might structure it. So they do the tax free exchange into the property, and they don't have to own it
entirely. They can be a tenant in common owner of it, that’s typically a valid 1031 consult your tax professional. And
then you can bring in the passive investors to take the other part of the land and fund the improvements and so
forth. It's a bit of work to do that. And there are challenges and reporting issues when it comes to taxation and all
kinds of things. And that person typically wants to preserve their ability to keep that exchange going forward. So you
think about that an exit strategy, but it might be worth it. If you've got a guy like that, that says, Hey, | got a bunch of
money. It comes with the following strings. I'm in a 1031. | haven't yet sold the property. So when | once | do my clock
will start ticking. But my intent is to exchange can you help me? Sometimes it’s worth bending, what would normally
be your structure to accommodate someone like that? Now, sometimes it’s not. So that's the part to think about
what you have to resist the temptation to do is try to be all things to all people. You know, my favorite thing to say is?
The answer is yes, that taught me the question. But that's just not always true in syndication, we can always do it
that way. A lot of times you will find, for example, someone who is knocking on the door of accreditation really wants
to be in your deal. And they can't get a third party, you know, validator to come up with them as accredited but they
know they're close. Like, come on, come on, you don't want to compromise. You want to make sure you have

someone other than you saying this person is accredited, and they qualify. So as far as what would actually count as
a qualified investment. There's more to it than that. So it’s usually a tax professional, you have to bring in. And that's
the advice you want to give. You don’t want to ever, ever be giving tax advice. Even if you're an accountant, and
you're syndicating. You don't want to give taxes, tax advice. It's not the hat you're wearing. So | wish | had a better

answer than that. But | think that’s a that's a tax and or legal question.
Robert 51:55

just present what you're doing build your value, when you build your value high enough, it actually never comes up,
when they understand how much work is involved in this and the great benefit they have by not having to do that
work, then that nobody begrudges you your small fee when you're making them a lot of money. So and again, just
big picture philosophy, when people are all about what you're making. Just take that with a grain of salt, that's like,
okay, that's person, that person is showing up, you know, in a certain way. And I'm not sure that some of that long
term | want to have as part of my business plan. But also sometimes it's just, you know, they just, they ask, because
they've been taught to ask, you know, some cultures, if you're not negotiating, well, you're, you're overpaying. That's
just part of it. So you just have to make sure that you're clear on it, you can explain it. And the explanation sounds
reasonable. And that it does feel fair, and say things like now based on that we really believe this is a fair
compensation plan. But I'm open to listening to what you have to say, what would you think would be fair, and just
let them tell you, and again, they're gonna have a hard time saying 9010 It’s just that's not fair. And they're gonna
have a hard time saying it is. So all right, good stuff. Well, | think we're almost at the top of the hour. So we'll call it a
wrap. And appreciate all you guys. Thanks for being here. If you're watching the replay, come join us live next time
we do this once a month deals in deal structure can be a specific deal you want us to look at it can be piece of some
collateral that you've got in terms of your structure of the deal, or how you're explaining the deal. Or we can talk to
your philosophy. So with that, thanks, everybody. Thanks for being here. And oh, a couple quick things. | should
remind you in our in our remaining couple of seconds, and that is that we have some upcoming events. The next
secrets of successful syndication happens the last weekend of March it will be live in Dallas, Texas, it's included as
part of your dues. So be there. And if you're comfortable coming out live, you're going to meet a lot of cool people.
We have over 140 people sign up right now. So we're expecting it to be a nice full room of socially distance folks.
April 23, and 24th is the next inner circle mastermind and meetup. So Friday is the mastermind for inner circle on
Saturday is our SMC meetup. Still no firm details | don’t think on that location but that'll be out to you shortly. May 21
and 22nd is how to win funds and influence people that happens in Dallas Texas. And that's it our sales workshop
when | say ours | mean Ross's he does a tremendous job on teaching consultative sailing, you know the kind of
sailing we do in syndication person to person asking layering questions. If you've been through it, you're going to
want to do it again, because it's a lot of role play and practice and you get good by that if you haven't been to it.
This is the secret to how to raise money. So definitely attend How to Win funds and Influence People. It's also
included as part of your tuition. In June it is our 19th annual Investor Summit more than 75% full but we'll make room
for you and you'll want to be there as soon See members, we do a cool thing for inner circle during the summit. And
I'm not bringing up to rub your nose in it. I'm bringing it up for opportunity. There's two opportunities you get as an
SMC person one. When we have space in our daily breakouts, we go to lunch. The inner circle meets with selected
faculty and have a really cool lunch. And it's one of the highlights of the week. And last year well, last year, we were
on screen the year before. We had about four extra seats every day. And so every day we went and picked for SMC
members and invited them to join us in that lunch. I'm guessing I'm guessing that's going to happen this year as well.
So if you're an SMC member, know that you may get invited to one of those super cool lunches. Plus, as an SMC
member, you guys know that | do the seating chart every night for dinner. So it’s my personal responsibility to make
sure that you're at a really cool table. And hopefully not sitting with the same people every single night but mixing it
up a bit. As an SMC member, there's a faculty member that you want to have dinner with, then you let me know.
personally reach out to Robert real estate guys radio.com Sam coming on the summit. I'm an SMC member. And |
want to sit next to Ken McElroy. And then give me a second choice just in case Kenny's dance card is full, whoever
maybe Tommy Hopkins or Peter Schiff, wherever you want to have dinner with and and we'd love to give you that
little nod as well. And then October 17 to 20th. | just put this in there for your planning purposes. That's the next New
Orleans investment conference. And we're going to have a participation from the real estate fund Alliance. That's
kind of our alter ego, which is the collection of fund managers that can include you. We have a trade show booth
there and we talk to people 85% of the people that attend the New Orleans investment conference are credited the
right kind of people and they're looking at alternative investments. They aren't necessarily real estate centric, but
we've had a lot of luck at this conference, getting people to take a look at real estate funds. And so the basic
what that mechanisms going to look like, because we got to be a little careful there, because folks who belong to this
club sometimes are brand new syndicators. | was on gene Trowbridge, his video programmer today and one of the
questions when the four questions he has passive investors ask is Have you done this before to a promoter? And the
answer is usually yes. Except for your first deal, then your answer has to be Well, | haven't done it before. But and it
better be a good but I've been doing this type of real estate for 11 years, or I've passively syndicated or I've co
sponsored, right in this first time that I've done it, you better have a compelling reason why it makes sense. So when
the size of the club is we don't have enough deal flow between members to kind of have the perfect, you know,
balance. But we definitely want to start working towards that. | think there's, you know, each other, the members are
a great resource. And | think we have all the legal protocols in place that, you know, this is a private club and all
those things so people can if they choose to do business together, and | think it's also very instructional. So if you
have a deal, that you'd like that you'd be willing to present to the group as a case study, and maybe something that's
active that you actually need help on, then we'd love to do that. And the way we do it is through just a PowerPoint
webinar presentation. We could do it in this kind of a format where | host it and then interview you about the deal.
You give us the song and dance and then we solicit feedback from the group. In inner circle, it's very common that
the members will distribute their documents to the whole inner circle group to get their feedback. Hey, before | send
this out Any live investors, would you guys take a look? Man, everyone's got busy lives. But usually there's a handful of
folks that are in a position to be able to do that. And we get some of the best feedback that way. So we'd love to do
that in the bigger group as well. So you want to be open to the feedback. But that's usually what we want, right? We
want to pitch our deal and see if anybody's interested before we go out live, if you will. We also are working on
having that LP an element of the live meetups. So our next meetup is in April. And we certainly have room for
someone to present a deal there. And again, the context is, well, this might be a great deal for somebody, right?
Because we have folks who are not yet doing deals and | believe that how you build your your experience resume is
through experience in real estate transactions, but also in investing passively in a syndication. That's my story. Right?
My first syndication | was a passive and the next several the same thing, and it was great. | love that. Fact. The other
thing gene Trowbridge said, is when someone says, Yeah, I've been a passive investor in 10 deals. And now | want to
be a promoter, or a sponsor, he says, why? What about passive investing isn't working for you? Which is a great
question. Like, sometimes it's just easier to give the ball to somebody and let them do the work. So | think that, you
know, big vision for the club, | would love to see us all investing in each other's deals, for the support for the
education because that way, we all get exposure to more stuff, if everyone's just doing their own deal. And that's it.
Okay, well, we can still learn from each other. But if we have each other's back, and we can get into opportunities
together, sometimes it's a way to get your toe in the door, you're going to learn more about syndication by being a
passive member in one than you are by just, you know, looking from afar. So if you're interested in that, whether
you're live with us or watching the replay, just email me directly, Robert, at real estate guys radio calm and say, Hey,
I've got a deal, I'd be interested in getting feedback on, and then send me what you have on the deal. And either
we'll schedule you for a meetup, where you can do it live, which is a great way to present right present live in front of
the room. And if | just made you nervous, saying that, then you're an excellent candidate for it. Because the time to
flub up is when you're among friends, and people that support you, as opposed to being in that, you know,
environment where you're with a client or prospect, and you just freaking out, | did a podcast earlier this week with a
guy that was really nervous. He's like, I've been listening to you for so long. And I'm just really nervous. Like, it's okay,
it's cool. We're just gonna have a conversation, which | got that that answer from the time | interviewed Larry King,
and | go, Larry, you know, this is the most intimidating interview I've ever done. It's like, oh, you're gonna be great,
we're just gonna have a conversation. So practice, and you can practice in front of the group. And then it's always a
good exercise to get people's feedback. And, you know, if say, Anthony, you were to do that from the front of the
room, and you certainly know how to present and would be competent to do that, and you give you a deal, then |
would invite people to give the good, the bad, the Ugly, the first thing | do is say, Anthony, how open are you to
feedback? And if you go, Yeah, bring it on, then let's see what people say, Well, this was awesome. But the realize you
said this, or | didn't like this part of the presentation, because now we all grow from that. So there's that. But
ultimately, we get the club to the size where we can not wait for a quarterly meetup to be able to do those kinds of

things where if someone has an active deal, we can get it out and get that that feedback even sooner.
that | structured it was to offer an 8% preferred return, or 70% of the profit, whichever is greater. And then yes, this
the investors do know that it was going to be about a year before our first payment, but because of COVID
Apparently that's also been delayed too. And I'm not sure who are that but Valsa had some misinformation because
you're under the impression that our greenhouse which is the first phase of our investment project, we thought it was
ordered. beginning of the year, we're expecting it to be delivered installed around the middle of this year. Now we're
finding out that oh, they still haven't even ordered it yet. And it's not gonna be delivered until next year. So regarding
all of that, just a little curious, I'm thinking about changing the investment opportunity. The 8% preferred return was
not supposed to be cumulative, but | feel a little bad for people obviously, it’s not our fault or even their fault because
of the issue with COVID. But | think about changing it from non cumulative to making a cumulative so that way
people feel a little bit more comfortable about Putting in the money now, because it looks like they're not going to
get their first payout until the middle of next year, which could be in a little over a year, year and a half from the time
that the first people actually be about two years from the time people started to invest, because we started raising
money this past May. So it’s been almost a year now. Just curious on your thoughts.

Robert 10:21

All right, great case study. And | have a couple different things to share on that. So the first is, there are a lot of
reasons why you might make a material change to the structure of a deal. Keep in mind when you do that, if you've
already raised some money, then there's a protocol you have to go through, there are certain things that you can
simply inform your investors, hey, management has decided x instead of y. And there's some things that you need to
get their permission or their buy in, or their advisory on. And that just depends on on the deal. But it is possible to
make changes, people have this feeling like well, once | hit print on my executive summary, then it’s over. Not
necessarily and there's reasons for changes to be made. Let's pull that thought for a minute and jump over to
preferred return. So no syndicator left behind. A preferred return is a way to structure a deal when it comes to the
financial performance where the investors rather than get just a percentage of it. In this case, Anthony mentioned
70%. So a 7030 split where the investor who's puts the money and get 70% of the return and the promoter
syndicator gets 30%. That's a common type of split. But when you throw a preferred return on there, what it says is
that the first X amount goes to the investors providing there is such amount. And so typically, preferred returns are
not cumulative. In fact, what happens is, you say the profit is 7%, or 8%, and 8% pref. If we make a return, so in a
year where you make no return than your typical documentation on a deal like this as well, if no money came into
the syndication, then the first 8% of zero is zero. So there is no payout the first year, so you're not obligated to make
a payout. And yet, sometimes, morally, and ethically, we feel like wait a minute, this is not how the deal was

supposed to go. So that's something you just have to wrestle with. | know in the past, we've certainly made up in
those kinds of circumstances when we've been able to, sometimes we're not, which brings me to the third point,
which is COVID. COVID is like the global reset. And so many ways, some properties have been positively affected.
lronically, the very produce that's growing in those greenhouses has got a higher demand right now because of
COVID. Closing the borders on some of the imports that they compete with in the marketplace. That that the other
side of it is | know that COVID has as an impact on them importing the greenhouses, which are not, you know, built
or created. They're they're they're assembled there, but they're, they have to be shipped and long shipping times and
all that. So | don't know the specific details, but I'm quite certain that supply chain is getting interrupted everywhere.
And a lot of that has to do with COVID. Our friend Chris Martin, is warning us that we haven't seen the worst of it yet.
There's still going to be ramifications no matter how the numbers come down and COVID or don't, that logistical
supply chain is going to be an issue. And | think people are fairly understanding of that. | mean, this is a pandemic
nobody really had prepared for saw coming. Some places you know some syndications and Anthony, you're
obviously big and multifamily. Let's face it, eviction. moratoriums have affected the returns in multifamily. But again,
most investors understand that when the law says you can't evict a tenant and they're not paying, there's not a lot
you can do to change the returns. What you can do as a syndicator, is just make the decision, this is something we're
willing to carry on the books. So accumulated preferred return says, Hey, we didn't get any money this year. But what
we're going to do is we're going to carry that in your capital account is a distribution that wasn't made, and we'll
make up that before we pay ourselves. So that's knowable to do. I'm not sure under the guise of a pandemic, that |
