mansion. And also they go, what is this real estate thing you're doing again? Right. So it was it was just presenting
yourself and being friends with people on a sincere basis had nothing to do with investing. But after a while, the way
you show up begins to tell the story that you is better left unsaid. So it makes sense.

© Craig Kamman 33:24

Yeah, no. Dave Zouk. He he approached it from solving a problem for his customers. Right. And I've | understand the
business from my perspective, right. And | don't think I'm as knowledgeable as they should be about the problems
that | could be solving for people. How do | deserve any videos on the portal that kind of address those on how some
of those tax benefits might help the higher income earners? And

© Russ 33:52

ah, maybe? I'm not sure so stays take a note on that because | can | can probably do one if there isn't one. | can
probably work that out with with Dave might be able to work that out with Eric. They both use the same CPA Tim
Gertz might be able to work that out with him or Mike pine. But, you know, Robert Kiyosaki dealt with this, with a
group of investors on the summit at sea a few years back, he just explained to people don't try to sell me what you're
interested in. Right? Because I'm already rich. | have tons of money. | make, you know, big six figures monthly, | have
a tax problem. Right? You don't have a tax problem, because you're still trying to get rich. | have a tax problem, right.
And so the point is, you do have to spend time with your avatar to understand their problems. And then you make
their problems your own. And then and then you go look for solutions and the solutions are going to be advice, like
strategies that will really work. And then and then the next thing is going to be deals that implement those
strategies, and teams that will support it so that you don't have to be the tax guy or the financial guy, you know,
you're the deal guy. But you have to be surrounded by people who can help validate, and prove, you know, the
benefits of what you're offering. Because ultimately, when you get to objections are going to fall into two categories.
Anybody who's been through the training, remember what they are. They're either going to be genuine, or they're
going to be misunderstandings. So a genuine objection is a genuine objection. It’s it's truth, right? | want green, it only
comes in red. Well, | can’t paint it. It’s it's only red. So we have to look at all the other wonderful things that this
investment will do for you. That you're going to trade. Accepting red when you really want green to get all those
benefits. And the question for you, Mr. Investor, is that a good trade? But if it's a misunderstanding, which most of the
time it is, then the technique is to agree and own the misunderstanding. Oh, crikey. | mean, | completely see your
point. And it’s 100%. My fault | failed to explain. And then you present the facts. And the facts typically are best if
they're presented third party, you cite an article you provide data, you quote, an expert, or you bring in a tax
strategist or a lawyer or whoever it is that can prove it. Before you go to all that trouble. You hypothetically
eliminated. Oh, okay. So | see that your objection, is this or your concern? Is this totally valid? Let me ask you this.
Pretty sure that, that | messed up on that. And | didn't give you the right information, assuming that that that | did
that | messed up. And that that's not really the case is there anything else would prevent you going forward. In other
words, I'm flushing it out. I'm not biting into a smoke screen until | flush it out. That's, that’s a more advanced sales
technique. But the basic concept is, is that when you get to closing time, you're going to be laying out a set of
features that you're offering presents, you're going to be indexing or connecting those to a set of benefits that your
prospect wants, hopefully, with a motion. And then you are going to see if they agree that your feature will solve their
provide the benefit or solve their problem. If they agree, then you get a series of those agreements, that leads to the
big agreement to move forward. If they don't agree, then you have to qualify genuine or misunderstanding. If it's a
misunderstanding, then you have to own it, as | said, and then hypothetically eliminated to see if it's a genuine
objection, if there’s anything else because you want to flush them all before you deal with them. And then once it is,
then you have to demonstrate with evidence to their satisfaction, that it was a misunderstanding. And in fact, the
benefit that they didn't think they were going to get, they really will get. Okay, that’s the technique. And it’s always
about somebody going into like a bar some room with a shotgun underneath his jacket. And he goes, watch this. And
he looks around, and he racks it. And, you know, a group of people turn around and look, and another group of
people are completely oblivious. Well, people that know the sound of a shotgun knew exactly what that was. And
they were on high alert. People who had zero idea what was going on, didn’t even know what happened. That's the
way you put bait in the water in a room. Right? If someone's got a tax problem, and you're reading a book on tax
loopholes, by Tom wheelwright, okay, now, also they're going to look at that golf, it's interesting. You know, | noticed
you're reading that book, why cuz | got a tax problem, maybe you can help me, somebody else who's got no tax
problem is not going to say a word they're going to be oblivious are not going to hear the shotgun. So that makes
sense. There's just 1000 Little things like this, you can do, but you got to be aware all the time of what you're doing.
It's intentional. It’s strategic, but not phony. Alright, so we're gonna call that a wrap. Because we're at the end of
time. We're a little bit over appreciate it. Again, it's really really, | mean, | love the impromptu stuff. And you guys
know, | can go and go and go and go. So it’s not a problem. But really keep a diary. And as you're going through your
day, and you get stuck and you have a marketing question, a sales question, a legal question, a deal question, an
operational question, capture it, just have one book, you write it down right there, have a special highlighter, the
highlight it with whatever, so that when you come to these, ask the mentors, and you get the invite, you can send the
question ahead of time, which is nice. | mean, it allows us to prepare, when it comes to sales, | don't need any
preparation, you can just you know, you can come along and give me whatever and I'll probably be able to roll and
most of us are that way. But But still, it’s it’s it's good. It's nice because it keeps things moving along. And then. And
then the other thing is constantly push yourself to where you're stuck and frustrated. That's where all the growth is all
the growth is at the margins, none of the growth is in your comfort zone. It's all outside your comfort zone.
Somewhere between comfort zone and complete failure is where all the growth is. Right. You don't across the line in
complete failure, but you want to stay out of your comfort zone, you want to stay in that growth zone. Okay. So that's
your challenge. And I'll look forward to doing this with you next month. And I'm sure I'll see most of you or some of
you on whatever our next Ask mentors is so keep up the good work. Appreciate you guys for being on the call, and I'll
see you next time.

&) Scott Florida 1:04:45
Thank you. Thank you
© Russ 49:20

skills or knowledge knowledge is about the taxes or skills about how to handle the objection, a

© Craig Kamman 49:25

little of both, you know, | don't, | don't, | don't try to convince people to buy something unless they you know, if they
saw those signs of buying, | can move them along. But with the relationship with him, I'm not going to move him
right. I'm not going to lead him along that way just because of my relationship with the family. Right? If if it's good
for him, he’s gonna see it. Right. And | can present the information for

© Russ 49:51

him. Well, in this case, he was not understanding the nuts and bolts of the tax strategy and he has a tax advisor
presumably whom he trusts. Yeah, So what you have to do is you have to get his permission with or without him to
engage that tax advisor. And and as far as the conversation with him, and this is true, anytime somebody says
something and you don't know how to answer, you, you use your hypothetical, you know, what | call the CGI of
selling. And you create a hypothetical scenario where you've satisfied the objection to make to test that that's really
the objection. And then to agree that to, you know, to quote the new presidential White House secretary, press every
circle back to get back once you're able to confirm the information. So it's like Craig, |, you know, make sure |
understand this correctly, I've laid this thing out. And we've talked a lot about tax benefits, and from what you've told
me, tax benefits are very important. Is that true? So | get a little agreement? Yeah, that's true, or Yeah, you know, little
conversation was pretty much either yes or no, it’s just a matter of how much okay, so it's my understanding from
working with my tax people that this offering creates significant tax benefits for certain people. And you may or may
not be in that group, and I’m not qualified to know that you're, you're maybe not qualified to know that. But your tax
advisor would know that, right? Yeah. Okay. So how about this? How about, you're going to need your tax advisers
blessing on this, and I'm gonna want that too. | wouldn't want to put you in anything that doesn't deliver for you
what you've bargained for. And my tax guy understands it, because he's the one that’s explained it to me. So how
about, we book a call, and I'll pay for everybody's time, where we get the four of us all together, we just hash it out.
And that way, you know, you know, and | know and that we're 100%. Clear. So the point is, is that you're you're you're
dealing with it, but you're staying in control it, the key is you've got to stay in control. If you send him off and leave
him you've you've lost, it’s very hard to get back in the driver's seat, you can do it. And | think you're going to do it

you it sounds like you have a plan to do it. And maybe there's relationship there. So you, you're going to

&) Craig Kamman_ 52:19

be communication still open? He didn't say no. So he wants a little more information. So

© Russ 52:23

okay. Okay, well, move quickly. Because every minute that you wait, the enthusiasm for what he was interested in
fates.
wy scott Florida 52:32

And would you find that out of your, like due diligence piece in the syndication? Or where would that fall in the
syndication breakdown as far as how to fund it?

© Russ 52:42

Okay, so another great, another great question of funding the time paying for the advisors? Yeah, yeah, I'm just
gonna come out of the deal, you have a promote, presumably, that's for raising the money, and you have to go
through this step in order to raise the money. And so that's a business expense that comes out, if you're promote, and
you're you have no, you have no transparency or responsibility for what you do with the promote. If the if the if the
customers have agreed that you're going to take one or two points off the top for marketing expense. That
marketing budget is 100%, discretionary to you. Now, if you have budget items, and you say, Okay, I'm gonna spend
this much on this and this much on that, and then you come out of the blue and spend a bunch of money in
something that wasn't a budget item. Well, now you have accountability, like what do you spend money on that for
wasn't in the budget. Nobody bought this deal agreeing that you were gonna be able to spend all this money in this
way. But money you have discretion over is your management fee, and your your promote, and ultimately, profit
sharing on the back end. plus whatever else you put in the budget, | mean, you may put things in the budget, you
may put legal and tax advice. $10,000. Okay, it means you have $10,000 of that discretionary money to spend for
legal and tax advice, if you're paying for tax advice about the deal in question. | mean, it's your professional
judgment, if that’s a good investment or not. But in terms of being authorized by your operating agreement, and the
presentation, you've made your investors to spend the money. Yeah, you can spend the money. Did that answer your
question, Scott?

G) Scott Florida 54:22

Yeah, it brought up another question too, just in thinking about like, as I'm thinking through the deal that I'm working
on working with Mike pine or a CPA like that, to ask some questions about structuring the deal and putting all that
together, that should also come out of that promote, is that correct? And

© Russ 54:43

so, it depends. It depends. Okay. You know, you can take it from different places, if you have something in your
budget. Like say for example, you put your deal together and you say tax and legal consulting $10,000 Okay, okay.
And that that's then then then it would be perfectly reasonable for you to spend at your discretion up to $10,000 and
still be well within the confines of what people bargained for what you told them you were going to do. Now,
ethically, you need to make sure that you're spending that money on behalf of the investors, right? So if you are
clarifying the value of your deal to prospective partners, and you need to clear that hurdle in order to attract the
capital to make the deal happen. Is that in the best interest of your investors? | would say, Yeah, probably. And is it
budgeted for? Yep. Yeah. Doesn't necessarily have to come out of your, your sales, your sales compensation or your
management compensation. Now, if you if you run out of budget, and you go, Hey, | need this, then you might go,
Okay, well, normally, | would want to spend this, but I've already spent that on legal, I'm over budget. And rather than
go over budget, which you can, you can go over budget doesn't look good, especially if you do buy a lot. But if you
say $10,000, and you come in like it, you know, 10, nine, nobody's gonna care. If you say $10,000, and you come in at
$200,000? Well, somebody's gonna have a problem, like, What the hell are you doing? Right? And then you may look
at where else do | have funds that | would be able to justify? And in some cases, you might say, I’m just gonna, you
know, pay this out of my own pocket, not even out of the deal. And then that, that that's up to you. Right, but you're
not, but but the point is, is that, you know, if the deal is big enough, that these little blips that you have to spend to

make things happen, should be minuscule, have almost no impact. | mean, again, | go back to secrets of successful
Russ 15:59

Okay, so you did a good job at the very end, saving it and turning it into something that was within maybe spitting
distance of being a sales and marketing question, and not a deal question. Okay, and | was almost going to stop, you
want to Robert's ask the mentors session, which you should probably take this too, by the way. And you might even
throw it up on the forum, because somebody like a victor Minaj might have something to say, or there's other folks
that are a little bit more experienced. But, but but | would say this, when you're putting together a deal, there's a few
people you need to sell, obviously, you need to sell the the seller, that you're the right person to get the deal, you
need to sell the banker, because selling them that you're the right person to make the loan to, you need to sell the
investor, that you're the right person or have the right team to actually operate the deal and get the deal done.
There may be some other parties involved, like, you know, local Planning Commission's or property managers who,
you know, you have to think through every person you need at the table, in order to craft a compelling offer. And you
have to understand what is going to be compelling to each of your core constituents, what the lender is going to be
looking for, is going to be maybe a little bit different than what the investor is looking for, although they're going to
be similar, because they're both bringing money, it's gonna be very different than what the seller is looking for,
potentially, although you know, the sellers looking for money to, but but they're not going to look at you at exactly
the same way. Obviously, somebody that's going to join the team and be responsible for managing the asset is going
to have a different criteria. So from a sales and marketing perspective, you know, you need to, as we talked about
Craig, always be busy building your brand profile, strategically for each of the core constituents that you expect to
need to bring to the table to get a deal done. You work with your accounting people to make sure your personal
finances are in order, you work with your lender to make sure that those are going to be adequate. If they're not
going to be adequate, and you feel like you're going to need something else, then you have to say, Okay, if | were to
bring in a credit partner, if | were bringing somebody in is going to bring a balance sheet, if | need somebody who's
got more experience. So | can beef up the confidence that anybody who's lending or investing in this deal or betting
their career on is going to believe in, where am | weak? Who do | need. And then you look at what you need, and you
look around at what you have to work with, you may have somebody in your network, that is a possibility and you
approach them, you may not and then that case, you have to look at who do | know in my network that might know
somebody that | might know, or that might be interested. And then you network through your network to find a
referral to somebody, you know, the last thing you want to do, which isn't, you know, terrible, at least today in the
internet age, you can really do a good reputation search, it’s not like slipping through the Yellow Pages and hoping
they're good. You can really learn about somebody quite a bit online before you actually choose to engage, but
obviously going cold is probably not as good as somebody that you already know, or somebody that knows
somebody that you already know. Okay. So, you know, without getting into the weeds of your deal, which is more
about deal structure, or, you know, what, what your financial profile looks like, versus what the lender would be
looking for. You're going to have to have your advisory team help you with that, which would be you know, your your
CPA, your lender. And, and then and then maybe some you know, like, again, take it to a deal call where you have
some people talking about deals are bringing into the forum. Excuse me, um, and that's the way to do it. But from a
sales and marketing perspective. It's just the same thing always you know, you have a need, and you have an offering
and you have to figure out how you can use your offering whatever you have to work with, to meet the need of
somebody else. Who has what you need. That's the essence of deal making, you're going to be very aware of your
need, although it's not a bad idea to be very clear. Where you have to really focus, if you're going to be a pro is
thinking about the whole situation, from the other person's perspective, what do they need, and then looking around
at what you have to trade with them to get what you need. Okay, and then working through people working through
network. So again, the bigger the better your brand, and the bigger your network, it's not just about raising capital,
it's about finding resources so big, that’s a big value, promise of the club, you know, that we won't really be able to
deliver fully, | mean, we're doing it a little bit. But you know, we get 100 200 300 members in here, and it starts to get
a lot more robust. And hopefully this year that we're back in live events, will start to be seeing an uptick. You know, |
can't | get a little frustrated by people who either are in the club and don't participate. Like, why are you here. And
the second thing is, is, of course, maybe they're just here for the networking without live events, you know, | feel
disconnected from them. But | think that in the world we live in, it’s going to be important. Going back to what | was

saying, with Craig, and what Eric Shelley did, that we find ways to build tribes, virtually, if we have the opportunity to
but but the core content is in there. And again, you know, to me, it's easy. | just automatically go to the principles

because I've memorized the principles. And | know what to do. If you keep studying them and practicing, you'll get
there too. Yeah,

&) Scott Florida 25:13

good. Yeah. Okay.

© Russ 25:16

Jo

Thank you. Okay. Hey, Jared, you got anything? | don’t not on sale, the marketing question. Okay. So you're just,
you're just window shopping. You're along for the ride right now. Okay. So Chloe, you just turn your camera on? Is
that because you want to ask something? Or you just want to show your pretty face?

25:36

It is not? Yes. I'm just here to learn to | the same question as my dad. So yeah, thank you.

Russ 25:43

Okay. All right. No worries. So Stacy, you know, through OTs, you're working through with a lot of syndicators,
obviously, fledgling syndicators, one of the big problems they have, which of course, is a potential problem for any
vendor that is supporting them, including you is they need to sell right if money is not coming in the door, everybody
that's depending upon that machinery doesn't eat. So can you think of anything maybe that you've seen with some
of your clients where they've been struggling, where you've either learned something, seen something or have a
problem that maybe we can talk about on their behalf? |

@ Staci Gray 26:22

think one of the things that | see a lot of syndicators do is overcomplicate it. And maybe Craig, to your point, it was
back to the basics. | definitely see that a lot where people feel they overcomplicate it, and then they feel
overwhelmed. And then they feel like their backs up against the wall because they have a deal, and they need to
fund it. And then they were relying only on a set investor list, but they weren't nurturing it. And they weren't investing
in it, and they weren't adding to it. So then they have this deal. And they're freaking out because they need to fund it.
But they didn't like fill their pipeline. And then they're like, Okay, well, now, now | have to fund it. And I've got to go do

20 different things, and they don't execute efficiently. So | see that often. | don't know, Craig, does that resonate with
you?

© Craig Kamman_ 27:07

Yeah, that's exactly the situation I'm in. How did you know?

@ Russ 27:12
$100,000 to go, you know, say well, | got a great idea. I'm gonna start my own country club and all attract all kinds of
rich people. All right, well, you know, you might want to have some success joining somebody else’s country club
before you do that, right. Okay, so | already said the basics,

© Craig Kamman_ 13:59

which the clarity you provided is the basics. A get back to the basics.

Russ 14:05

Never changes the basics are the basics of the basics. Vince Lombardi gentlemen, this is a football. This is about
running, throwing, catching, tackling, blocking. It's it kicking. That's it. Right. The question is not what you do. It's how
well you do it.

Craig Kamman_ 14:21

Yeah, | was overthinking this. So yeah. Well, that Scott's got clarity. He gave me clarity at the last meeting. So nice.
So Scott,

Russ 14:29

do you have a microphone now?

Scott Florida 14:33
Yeah, | think so. Okay, okay.

Russ 14:35

All right. So then, what was your your question?

Scott Florida 14:41

So, uh, I'm working toward, you know, defining my deal. Been talking about some lenders and trying to get the scope
and clarity on it. One of the questions that | have is related to me being the sole borrower. So the way the The way it
works, | can do a smaller deal with my liquidity and net worth. But | might, because it's my first deal, I'm viewing that
as a pretty important piece of the puzzle. So I'm looking at a group of homes in Florida, working with the realty
doctors and you know, getting going with them is my first step. And so I'm looking at about 14 or 15 Homes is about
what | can do. | mean, | don't have the you know, the the downpayment and all that piece of it, but the part that you
need to get the lending in place, | have that for that size of a deal. And so what I’m asking is, is that the, from your
perspective, is that a good way to go about it as far as the the deal itself? Because I'm because I'm new, I'm feeling
like that's an important piece of the puzzle to communicate to other people that | have the chops to do it.
I ree ees eee cee ep eee epep

work that out. | see your lips moving. Nothing's coming through. Okay, so Craig. Yeah. So | think everybody needs to
know, as | said, Secrets of successful syndication. As | always say the single most important thing that you need to do
that you need to do right away that you never stopped doing that is your daily obsession is build your brand, build
your network, build your brand, build your network, build your brand, build your network, your your brand, is the story
of who you are, how you want to show up, how you want to be perceived. The things the clues, you have to put into
the ethos that people are going to see when they check you out. It’s your online appearance. It's how you dress, how
you talk, who you're associated with. That's all part of your presentation. Next is associations who you're seeing with
what groups organizations or people that you can find a way to name drop without looking like your name dropping.
And sometimes that's just being in the right place. Right? So if you work out and you work out at a cheap gym, where
people with little means and aren't really robust investors or have the potential to be roasted, robust, investors aren't
that then don't work out there. Join an expensive health club where rich people are. But be be sincere, be who you
are, right. And if you're a fake, if you're a fish out of water, people are going to smell that right. The most important
thing in building your brand always is developing trust. Two forms are the most important. competency, meaning you
know what you're doing, you're capable, you're successful, you have to have some fruit of that people have to see it.
If you drive up in a junky car, and especially a junky car that’s not well maintained, then you're telling people that I'm
not a person of means and | don't take care of my stuff. If you were cheap clothes. You know, same thing. Now I'm
not saying you got to run around in $1,000 suits and driving a Rolls Royce because that sends a different message.
But you know, and you got to be consistent with who you are. But be very attentive to all of that presentation and
association. Association you Networking is just putting yourself in rooms of people that are the kind of people that
you enjoy being with that you think will enjoy being with you that most of all will enjoy being with each other. When
Eric Shelley who made most of his networking connections through live meetups got locked down because of
COVID-19. What he did was, he started a Facebook group. And that Facebook group grew. And last quarter he
raised over $7 million, and largely through relationships he was building through people in his group and what | call
centers of influence, can't remember what he called mavens, he calls a mavens. But the idea is there are people that
have a database full of people who have problems that you need to solve in his case, his particular offering, is
something that gives people some real tax benefits. And so he’s become very knowledgeable about how those tax
benefits works. He has a CPA, who can back him up on that, so he doesn't cross the line into giving tax advice. So
that when a prospect ends up having questions related to tax, and their CPA is giving them the wrong answer, rather
than Eric trying to make that person wrong or make their CPA wrong. He lets his CPA talk to their CPA, and they talk
CPA talk and they work it out, right and one of two things is going to happen either, you know, the, the new CPA is
going to see the benefit of what you're doing, which means every other client he has that needs, the solution you're
offering now becomes a prospect and he becomes an influencer for you. Or you're going to find out that your tax
strategy is bogus, and your CPA is wrong, and you're selling snake oil. And even though that's bad, it’s still a win. And
then the third thing that could happen is that the client will actually end up dumping his CPA and becoming part of
your network and working with your CPA. So really, they're all positive outcomes, and it's just an example. But he
used social media, Facebook, to create a private group, you could create a local club, you know, people are tired of
being cooped up, they want to get together, I'm talking about doing that with my oldest daughter, Stephanie, she is
just re entering the mortgage business. And we had great success, the first time starting a local club, where we just
got together and mentored people, Brad and Emily in the inner circle, have started a local club, and then they draw
upon other inner circle members and their providers and their their investment partners. And they bring them in as
guest speakers. And so you know, what you're doing is you're looking at what you have to work with who you are,
what you're interested in, and then you start putting yourself just in a position to add value to the right people that
that's the core of it, and you just get busy doing it. And | think the big thing that that hangs up a lot of people and |
know you're a salesperson by profession, | think you are in real estate. So anybody that has been in sales

understands that there is this natural at the beginning of your career in whatever industry, even though you might be
crushing it in whatever you're doing, where you just don't quite know who you are, you don't quite know what your
your positioning is, you don’t quite know what your offering is, you don't really quite know your avatar. And you want
to figure all that out before you engage. But I'm here to tell you, you learn all that by engaging, right? The first person
you engage with is yourself and figure out who the heck are you. So you know, inner circle. When we start people out
on a strategy consultation, we talk about mission vision values. And actually two days ago in my journaling session, |
realized after coming out of goals, we have that a little bit backwards. And | look back at my own life. And | have a
the same. The reason | can go down that path, like catch me anytime catch me in the bar and asked me to always

be the same answer, it'll be the same pattern. And once you memorize your pattern, then you know how to deal with
it. And that's all in the How to Win Friends and Influence People.

© Craig Kamman_ 38:31

Right? So to strengthen my, my sales on this, | need to understand their needs better. For example, I've got the steel |

presented it. He’s got the money. But he doesn’t quite understand the the benefit of it. And | couldn't present the
benefit from a tax standpoint very well to him.

© Russ 38:52

Right? Because not what you what it sounds like. What you learned from him is that it was a tax benefit. He was
interested in

© Craig Kamman 38:59

that that's what intrigued him when | did say there was tax benefit to it. And he says, Well, if there's tax write offs,

that means it’s a loss. And | said, No, there's depreciation schedules that you run on this. And | didn't have | didn't
have enough knowledge to really get into depth with him.

© Russ 39:16

Okay, well, | don't know the nature of the deal. But if you're familiar with Schedule II, passive activity losses, then you

know, depreciation is one of those. And so you can show them that and explain what depreciation is even from
something as simple as, you know, Investopedia or something like that.

© Craig Kamman_ 39:34

Right. But like the cost segregation, like is all the appliances is that deductible the first year? | mean, what kind of tax
benefit does someone walk into right out of the well,

© Russ 39:44

| mean, it depends because the tax law changed a little bit at the first of the year. We have a cost segregation report
at the real estate guys radio port. website. | think it's cost segue at real estate guys. radio.com But you'll see it the
special reports. We did a podcast and some things videos with Eric Oliver from Cost Segregation authority he gets

into that he's a resource for you. So you can you can contact him. He may have literature, he may have stuff on his
website. Well, is that again? Eric with a K? Oliver?

© Craig Kamman 40:18
| think I've met him. Yeah.
© Russ 40:19

And | think | think Stacy, correct me if I'm wrong. | think he’s in our provider network on the SMC platform, you don't
even have to go to the real estate guys, | believe. Okay, she said, |

) Craig Kamman 40:28

recommended that he talked to his financial planner on this

© Russ 40:32

is challenges you lose control there, if you send them to a financial planner, the vast majority of financial planners
are commissioned paid paper asset salespeople, and they are going to submarine whatever you're doing, because
you're trying to pull assets out from under their management and take away their income. Yeah, okay. So that goes
back again, to the sales training and how to win friends and influence people, | talked about your border collie
patrol, | draw a circle. And | show that you and your prospect are inside the circle, if that’s what you think what you
don't realize is that your prospect is tethered to all kinds of influencers. And it could be their parents, it could be their
brother, it could be their children, it could be their best friend, it could be their spouse, it could be their current
advisors, it's all of those people. And so, in developing the relationship with someone, part of what you're doing is
understanding who else would need to be involved who they typically consult before making an investing decision?
Yeah, you want to understand, you know, the types of investments are already in because that gives you an idea of
what they've already accepted. It also might give you an idea of some of the risks that they are exposed to, they may
not be aware of chief among them is Counterparty. And so, then then, you know, when you begin talking about some
of these advisors, you can say, you know, if they're professional advisors, you can say, oh, you know, I'm, I've got
someone who's actually looking for somebody, or maybe, you know, always No, don't say it that way. I'm always
looking for good people to connect with the viewer to rate this guy on a scale of one to 10. You know, where would
you put him? And so he's going to tell you, whatever number, I'll give him an eight, wow, eight, wow, he must be really
good. What do you like best? He's going to tell you what he buys. And you say, well, you only gave him an eight. So
what's missing? If you if to get it from eight to 10? What would it take? And then he'll tell you what unmet need exists
in his life in that regard. And then you can say, well, that’s great. | know somebody or if | were, if | if | found some |
think | know somebody that could actually help you in that area. If I'm gonna double check that for you. Now you're
helping them. But but if | do that, and is there any reason you wouldn't want me to? You know, refer that person to
you? Or let you know about the connect you with them? Versus No, I'd like to get that problem solved. Okay, great.
Well, now, you know, they're kind of a buyer. And you have a way to interject or inject somebody from your border
collie patrol into the conversation, because again, you've got a group of influencers that are tethered to this person
inside the bubble. And they're pulling the person towards them, you're trying to pull them towards the people in your
side. And the more connections you have with people who are pulling for you, the more likely you gain, client control,
client loyalty, client reinforcement, client retention, client penetration, if you will, in terms of getting bigger parts of
their portfolio, headed your way more of their potential for referrals. And if they end up loving their person, then you
have to move in closer to them. And your goal is is to engage them to make sure that they feel good about what
you're doing. Don't be afraid of that. Be curious. To make sure that they are affirming of what you're doing, say, Look,
| don't want to trouble you, with having to go to your guy and try to explain it's like playing a little game of
telephone, right? | tell you, you tell him and maybe gets all the way through, maybe he understands. But | would hate
for you to miss this wonderful benefit that can do all these great things for you. Just because there's
miscommunication. so with your permission, what I'd like to do is contact your person directly and talk to them about
the deal and I'm happy to pay for their time. Okay, now you come in and you're going to pay, but again, | mean,

what are you talking about here? You can pick up 100 bucks, maybe for half hour, whatever it is somebody's time.
February 3, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales
and Mar...

@ Mon, 10/25 3:02PM ©@ 1:05:01

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, deal, investors, sales, question, tax, influencer, build, interested, craig, bit, problem, syndication, big, person, marketing,

talk, understand, cpa, benefit

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Craig Kamman, Staci Gray

Russ 00:17

Hey everybody, this is Russ and we are here for another edition of Ask The mentors for January no February of 2021.
Can't believe we're already 1/12 of the year into the new year and excited. This is the sales and marketing asked
mentor, so I'm here and | guess I'm running the show Stacy's riding shotgun, happy to have her and we have some
handsome faces. So we have a bunch of roosters in one hand. | guess that's why | would say it. Probably
inappropriate, but that’s okay. It’s my specialty. So, | have maybe a couple of things to talk about. But before |
ramble, rather than do that, but what I'd like to do is you guys came here today, you tell me, what are you here for?
You got anything out there in the real world that you're struggling with in terms of sales and marketing, great ideas,
successes, something you'd like to share? That you think everybody would benefit from someplace? You're stuck? | am
all yours for up to an hour. You have to unmute yourself or turn your mic on or something there, Mr. Scott. Not sure
why | see your mouth moving but no, no noise. Something is broken. Am | the only one not hearing him? Okay. Got
you're having an issue. It says you're connected, but nothing's coming through. So this is a rally killer. All right. Well,
you try to figure that out. If you can interrupt us if you want to. But since we can't work with you until we can actually
hear you. Let's you want to try to kiss grades. Let's you want to try and chat a question. Which Let me see. Where's
my chat box? Chat? Oh, there it is. Okay. Can't can't see it. So you keep trying to work that out? | don't think it's on
my end, Scott. Because it says that you're connected. So | think you got a bad microphone. So see if you can switch
look in your microphone choices to see if you can figure it out. How about you Jared or Craig anything? Craig? you're
unmuted you got something?

Craig Kamman_ 02:23

Um, we're on sales and marketing, right? Yep. So I'm kind of at that point where I've got to build my network more. |
thought | had a handful of investors. And when | presented the offer, | was surprised at how few step up to the plate.
Like | thought | thought | had enough I'm going to need a lot more is what I’m realizing.

@ Russ 02:48

Well, welcome to The Club. Oh, we got somebody else in the waiting room that | didn't see. Oh, it's Chloe. All right.

Are vou auvs toaether? Scott? Are vou aonna be able to mavbe communicate to her micronhone? Keen trvina to
_)oO

syndication, where | show you the difference between a two and 3% promote a 50% increase on the front end, right.
It's less than 2025 basis points, the difference in return is a rounding error. Yeah, to the investors. And that's only ona
$3 million equity deal. If it's bigger than that, then then it’s even less impactful. Okay, good. Good. All right. So we are
very close to the top of the hour. Probably can handle one more anything from anybody? comment, question?
clarification. Oh, Chloe? Okay.

57:24

Hi. Um, | just want to go back a little bit to what Craig said, and just kind of like ask if I'm understanding things, right.
So when it comes to like, what how I'm seeing it based off of what you're saying is, when it comes to talking with
people who you might possibly be able to get into a deal with you at some point in the future, or whatever, like
relationship building, the build your brand, build your network, it kind of solves the problem of offering value to
people. And it solves the problem of like the building relationships, because when you're talking with someone, and
they likely have a need, when it comes to whatever their need is, you have a funnel in some way, even if you aren't
aware of like, even if you aren't sure of your own skill sets, wherever, whatever you have to offer your funnel even with
being in the in the club, like you have a funnel in some way to be able to offer something to someone so you never
have like a full stop. Like where you're stuck. If I'm understanding you, right, that's what | see with Craig situation like,
even in that where he might be lacking, he has a place to go to offer. And if he’s taking the responsibility on the front

end to be just be the like connector, then he has something to offer there too. Right?

Russ 58:34

Correct. | mean, again, Andrew, Illinois, built a very big mobile home parks syndication company. And in the
beginning, he was building his network by sharing recipes. Recipes. I'm like, dude, really recipes. He just knew he
needed to add value, he needed to find a way to be connected. He got people in a conversation. They talked about
cooking and data, he said, Hey, | got a really great recipe. And he used that as a hawk to get an email address, to
send them something to get them on his list and build goodwill and had zero to do with raising capital. Again, this is
why you know sharks join you know, financial predators, join clubs, join churches join a what they call affinity groups,
it's because there's already a high level of trust built and they try to lever that trust from whatever the the common
connector is to these peripheral things. And you always have to be careful because smart people are very well aware
that people do that. And so you don't to me, | | much rather go slow and build real trust. Then then oversell and, and
say too much too fast. Because people are the right people are super sensitive to it because they get hit all the time.
You know, so. And that's why the other thing is, is if you're, if you're involved with people, and activities, and
organizations, that and you're there sincerely, because you're truly interested, you truly enjoy it. It truly aligns with
your values and you believe in who they are and what they're doing, then people are going to feel that. And over
time, if you're cognizant of every time you show up, what you drive, how you look, what you're carrying, like a book
that you're reading, right, | walk into a room with a book that I’m reading, if | if | if | go on airplane, instead of first
class, | put usually a business book down an investing book down. If I'm sitting in coach, | might be reading a book
on firearms, right or something, you know, because I'm unless interested in who | meet in coach than who | meet in
first class. Right? And again, you know, so well, that sounds judgmental and discriminatory. Yes, it is. It is. You know,
that's why you fish in certain ponds, like well, |, you know, | want to catch, you know, | want to catch a catfish. Okay,
and you go fish fishing, you know, obviously, I'm talking about something | know nothing about. So bad analogy. But
but the point is, is you know, if you're going to fish in a pond, you got to be in the right pond where the right fish are,
and you got to put the right bait in the in the pond. And you got to let the fish bite if you're too aggressive, the fish
swim away. And so the idea is to just be cognizant, when you go into those environments that you have the right
aroma, you will the right aura, the right energy because you're there for the right reasons. And it's congruent,
because people are discerning, and they will pick up a phony. And then the second thing is to set your are cognizant
and strategic about putting hints about who you are and what you do out there. So that people who are interested
with Perry Marshall would call racking the shotgun. If you've read Perry Marshalls, 8020 marketing, he tells a story
get together with him live and in person, you know, do that, which is great. But just like you can imagine, | think your
your background is in in church and pastoring. You know, you can imagine that's all about congregating. It's why
they call in congregations. And if they can't congregate, you don't just go okay, well, let’s just stop meeting for a year
until this thing blows over. And then we'll all reconnect at a human level and talk about important spiritual truths and
hold each other accountable. And whatever it is you do, and, you know, in your churches, right, you find a way to
continue to stay in touch, whether you don't meet in a big building, you meet in small groups, so you do phone trees,
or Zoom calls or whatever, but you find a way to stay connected. This is no different. If you take that same exact
mentality and skill set to building your investor, congregation, and your advisor congregation and your provider
congregation, understanding that within your overall congregation, you have subsets of people that have unique
needs, just like you do, you got men, married women, you know, teens, | mean, you know, having been around a lot of
churches in my lifetime, you know, you you have the overall church, but then you have all these, the sub sectors, you
build your business exactly the same way, largely with the same strategies and tactics. | mean, it's about culture. It's
about affection. It’s about trust. It's about shared ideology, mission, vision, values, goals, people getting their needs
met and meeting the needs of others. It's exactly the same. Exactly. It's just money involved. That's the only
difference. Did that answer your question? Scott?

G) Scott Florida 22:51

Yeah, somewhat. You know, | think specifically, what | was looking for is, from your perspective as a new syndicator. In
this, does it sell better? If I'm coming in with me being the sponsor on the deal?

© Russ 23:09

In other words, do people feel better if you have skin in the game? Because you signed on the loan?

GS) Scott Florida 23:14

Correct. | mean, I'm planning to bring some money to the deal as well. But the primary thing that | want to bring to
the that | think | need to bring to the deal is they don't need to get the loan or sign on the loan or bring their their,
you know, their qualification for the loan.

© Russ 23:28

Yeah, that's kind of the whole point of you know, they have a limited position. Exactly. Right. Now, you may carve out
if you need help, you may carve out to tears, people that are willing to, to supplement on the debt, the guarantee the
balance sheet side of things, and people who aren't, you can have two classes of investors. But in terms of, you know,
what makes something sellable. | think the most important thing is if you believe it’s a good deal, if you believe it's
fair, if you believe you can execute, and you go out there with conviction, you'll be able to sell it. And when you meet
people who you can't sell it to, then you're going to learn what's missing from your offering. And then you can tweak
it. And you may say, Well, hey, | understand how you feel about this particular offering. Let me ask you this, if | were
to come back to you either retooling this offering or another one like it, and we have addressed this issue is there any
other any other reason why you wouldn't want to take a take a good look at this and proceed? Right and that's just a
technique you learn in the sales training where | hypothetically eliminate the objection to find out if it's real, and then
| do a trial close to test it. And then either I'm gonna get another objection | keep flushing until | get them all out on
the table, or I'm going to get a tentative agreement with a set of conditions | know if | meet | have a reasonable
expectation to be able to do business that’s just sales technique one on one you know so that's in the How to Win
funds and influence people in the closing modules and we're going to retake that this may get better video quality
And they're gonna look at your deal. They're going to poke holes in it, which it which will make it stronger. And so
that's good advice. And if they don't poke holes in it, then they're going to actually reinforce and help you make the
sale to their client. That's worth it. If they're impressed by the deal, and they have other clients who are interested in
it, well, now you've just made an impression and opened up a Maven or an influencer. Because you've got a tool that
you just put in their toolbox, where other people who are similar to the client they already have. And typically people
who have client a usually have client, you know, a whole bunch of other people that are kind of in the same
category. You see how fast this thing could snowball. But but this is the key, you've got to engage. It doesn't happen,
you know, by by sitting in your office writing emails, or writing newsletters or trying to come up with strategies, or
design logos, or marketing slogans. | mean, all of that stuff is important. But the most important thing is you've got to
engage. Now, the good news is because your sales guy, Craig, you went out and engaged, but you didn't engage him
from what I'm hearing. And this isn't a criticism, just an assessment with a high level of skill. And so when you got
when you got opportunities to advance the conversation, you didn't know what to do. Because you didn’t have the
skills at the ready. That's why | make How to Win Friends and Influence People a interactive, | mean, you gotta you
participate. And | really think that, and I've said this, and | don't know that anybody's done it, | don't know why
nobody's done it, but but | would do it is find a group, your your, your marketing Alliance, your border collie group,
and schedule, you know, a once a week, once a month, once every other week, drill for skills, watch a module,
download the worksheets, do the exercises, it only takes three of you one person to be the salesperson, one person to
be the buyer, one person to be the observer, the critic, so it's just you and two other people, now more people can
join in, and practice. And, you know, again, that's why I'm here on this because you know what | can do, because I’ve
memorized the techniques is pretty much any scenario you give me, | can roll right into roleplay, run right through
the whole thing, and basically be very, very consistent in how it turns approach the problem because | follow the
same system every single time. And, you know, it just it'll take you a practice, it just takes time. But if you practice
you'll get there. So in this case, you have somebody that said no, and you're not 100% sure why you referred them
away and lost control of the situation, you basically turn them over to their influencer, lost the opportunity to, you
know, maintain or control the narrative. And you also lost the opportunity to build a relationship with a potential
influencer.

© Craig Kamman 47:48

Um, yeah, this one's a little different. I'm tied into the whole family pretty tight. It's, there's more dynamics to it than
that. So,

© Russ 47:59

again, I'm not I'm not trying to criticize, right, I'm just what you're saying. But based on what | knew, you know, that's
the way it seemed to me and other people who have done a similar thing without having that back end connection.
Everything | said would be valid. Correct. But the but the point is, is that is that you have to look at everything. When
you look, if you go back to the sales, training, and also secrets of successful syndication, build your brand, build your
network, | have the guy with the binoculars, and in the binoculars, you have the dollar signs. And if when you look at
people, you see dollar signs, you're missing all the value. If you look here, the people to their relationships, that's the

value. And so when you look through your prospect to his influencers, you know, so how, how are you not able, why

would you not be able to engage with this financial advisor?

® Craig Kamman 48:59

| have a meeting scheduled with his attorney, we're doing a deal together on now unrelated, so it’s not over with him.
But it was | learned that | did not have the knowledge that | thought | had to handle these objections. Where |

learned | was a rookie
Because it’s extremely common. That's why when | get up there and build syndication, and | just go off on build your
brand, build your network. | know I'm saying the words, but | also know that until the student is ready, you know, the
the lesson doesn't land. And this is this is what I'm trying to preempt as much as | possibly can. And the other issue,
the reason people feel uncomfortable, and you have to understand the psychology of what's going on inside you
when you're struggling with this, is that when you recognize that you have a burning fuse, you have what Perry
Marshall would call a bleeding neck, you are in a crisis, that all sudden everything you say everything you do, and the
timing with which you get intimate, if you will, with your customers, hopes, dreams, and finances is way too fast, and
you feel uncomfortable, because on a human level, you know that you're being selfish. And so the way you preempt
that is to be busy all the time, making friends, authentic friends, based around common interests that you sincerely
enjoy. And maybe exploring new interests that you think you might enjoy, where you think that there's a probability
that you're going to meet the right kind of people. So you know, in the beginning, I'm not throwing stuff under the
bus, right at all. And SAP SAP is great. And so | don't want this to come across the wrong way. But first of all, SAP is a
classic example of somebody that overthinks and he’s gotten a lot, lot, lot a lot better. But being an engineer, he's
always trying to, you know, kind of logic out all of the vagaries. And this is an art, not a science. And so it's really hard
to do that. And so, you know, he's done a lot of things creatively, as he’s experimented and learned. So he used to go
sit in Starbucks, and he had this idea that he would kind of like a multi level marketer have something on his laptop,
trying to get the people who are coming to Starbucks to want to talk about investing with him. We talked him off
that ledge because from you know, kind of the the presentation perspective, it sent completely the wrong message.
And so he understood that he did not have a company name, and he'd already gone out there and done all kinds of
business and raise money. He didn't even have a name for his company didn't have a website. Nothing. So he did
that really, right. He just realized just go out there and be a nice guy and make friends which he’s an expert at. And
then through those relationships, pick up the phone and call people and tell them what you're up to and ask if
they're interested. And if all you did is it'd be great. And then if you add it to that, if they're interested or not
interested, if they know anybody that might be interested, because you think you have something great to share, not
about you, it's about them. Okay, now, that's a little awkward, you know, but it'll get there. I'm just a big fan of never
going in the front door, because the front door is always what's locked, you know not to use a nefarious analogy, but
you know, burglars very seldom go in the front door, they usually go in a side door back door. Well, when you are
trying to get into a relationship where people are used to being sold all the time, and the higher net worth people are
used to being sold all the time, you just can't go in the door, everybody else goes in. You know, the reason we set up
the firearms training and made it available to you guys is it’s a tool for you to use to invite people to do something, it
has nothing to do with investing. But the types of people that are going to spend, you know, 1000 to $1,500, with
travel and ammo and hotel and all that to go do something like that, probably are the right people. Now, you know,
you may or may not get along with those people, that's a different discussion. But if it’s something that's interesting
to you, that's a tool. I've told the story about how Ryan Gibson quit Planet Fitness and joined, you know, the capital
club or the country club gym for 10 times the price. But it was about who was in the locker room and who was on the
gym floor? Who would get into conversations within, you know, you know, when he was in the facility. So it's that type
of thing. So, yeah, it just, it never changes. | just think that this is not a marketing problem. A lot of people get into
syndication, they think, oh my God, | need a CRM, | need a website, | need a database | need, you don't. You need to
just go out in the world, through whatever means you have available and meet people and become friends on a
sincere basis. And then in time, a true friend will be interested in what you do for a living. And if you soft, pedal it a
little bit take away a little bit of mystery, but enough information so that if they're interested, they'll say, oh, that
sounds really interesting. Tell me more. If they say oh, and then they say you see what's happening in the Superbowl.
And they change the subject. Okay, well, you know, you found out but no harm, no foul. And you can stay friends with
him based on that. Because maybe the timing isn't right. You know, for years, my wife worked as an administrator in
the church that supported the homeschooling where our kids went. And she had her very best friend was right there
with her. And they would go back and forth. And you know, they would talk from time to time about the things that
was involved in that. Then one day my wife pulled up in her dream car, it was either my Mercedes or it was either her
big Denali. And for whatever reason, that was it. Now all sudden, her friend was very interested in what we were
doing. Robert had all his college buddies that were not all that interested, they'd get together twice a year. And then
one day, he got them together in his big house in Lake Las Vegas. And they walked into this, you know, quasi
crystal clear vision mission, which is always manifested into a crystal clear vision, even though the vision is just based
on what | have to work with an external circumstances. But the one thing that really hasn't shifted in my entire career
are my values. And so one of my highest values is liberty. The reason I'm an entrepreneur is because | don’t want to
have a boss. The reason | do what | do is | want to help set people free because | value freedom. Freedom of
thought, freedom of expression, freedom to invest freedom to own your own business freedom to make as much
money as you want freedom to having to work for a paycheck freedom, freedom, freedom, freedom, freedom. | love
freedom. And whenever | see any threats to freedom, whether it's a it’s a corrupt banking system, a dishonest, a Wall
Street, whatever it is, | get pissed. And | want to do something about it. So | have a little bit of a Moses complex, you
know, | want to set the people free. That's me. Now I'm not saying you need to be me, you got to figure out you,
whatever it is. But once you figure that out, out of that will grow a mission and from that will grow a demographic
that you want to serve in some way, shape or form unless you're just absolutely narcissistic and selfish. | mean,
ultimately You're gonna have people that you want to serve, whatever that is, and then you figure out well, how can |
best serve these people? And it’s going to be internal external, right? Internal is going to be how can | serve me? How
can | serve my family? How can | take care of my loved ones? How can | fulfill my responsibilities to the people that
are depending on me? And that's a high responsibility that service, but it’s its internal, the external services, what am
| going to go exchange to the world? What am | going to give the world in exchange for the value | want to receive to
give to myself in the folks that | love, that's it. When you figure that out, then the brand building the networking, kind
of as an extension of all that. And then and then the way to overcome your natural hesitation is to approach it not
with trepidation or apprehension, or even any real attachment to the outcome, just go intensely curious, | wonder
what would happen, | wonder how | would fit in, | wonder how these people will react, | wonder and just go find out.
And when you find out, it's just data, you don't really care. It's not personal in any way, shape, or form, it's just
information. And if you take that approach to it, it takes a little bit of that resistance away, it actually makes it a bit
of an adventure, it makes you an explorer in your own life, because you're exploring your potential. And, and then like
| said, if you're if you're doing it based on a set of values, that little extra edge you need, because you feel like you're
doing something that’s worth doing is usually enough to get you moving. And then once you're moving, then the
important thing is set up structures and disciplines and accountability to keep moving and keep moving and keep
moving and keep moving and just never stop moving. And then and then in time, you're gonna have two or three
initiatives that you're working, and you're gonna look at him and go, What's number one, what's number two?
Number three? And you're gonna say, Well, you know, number three is low man on the totem pole. So, but number

one is really working. So I'm going to reduce my amount of activity on number three, and I'm gonna put more
activities number one. And then you might say, Well, yeah, but | don't want to be solely dependent single point failure
on any one network, any one lead source, any one investor. Okay, so you have to have maybe at least two things
going at all times. You know, we've been very dependent in our business on our podcast for a very, very long time.
And, you know, once | kind of got things settled with my wife, and came out of the fog, as well, you know, we've got
to find a bigger pond deficient. We're already where we want to be in podcasting. And maybe we can grow. But you
know, we've kind of hit the bell curve. And, you know, it takes a lot more effort to get just a little bit of result, but
we've done nothing and YouTube, let's go see what we can do in YouTube. New pond, just like when everything
happened to us in 2008, we said, hey, you know, we've, we're pretty well known in the real estate space. And we really
know that demographic, but that demographics dried up a little bit right now. And there's no equity lending isn't
there? These people don't have strong balance sheets and the assets that they did have that event have
evaporated? Who's got money out there? Well, you know, | mean, if you look at if you've been paying attention to
precious metals, you know that it was pretty good times for precious metals, people in 2011, not so much for real
estate. Okay, so we went in, started fishing in that pond and built strategic relationships, using exactly what | teach
and how to win friends and influence people. And that's how we built a relationship with Brian London. Who is what
Eric Shelley would call a Maven, | call an influencer. And if you've been through my sales training, you know, | was
talking about when you walk into a room, you have to ask yourself, Who is the most important person in the room?
It's the person who has the absolute most influence? And then you have to ask yourself, well, how can I? How can |
become valuable to that valuable person, because that's the essence of success being valuable to valuable people.
So it’s really not that complicated. But you've got to take those basic principles, and then strategically look at what
you have to work with and who you are, and then start picking some things that you can begin to do. And again,

don't worry about it, whether it works or doesn't work. | mean, don't bet the farm on any one thing. | wouldn't spend
