JO

JO

29:19

My experience with so when with the information that | got from the club, | realized the construction company was
lacking. | went out and searched more knowledge out found traction found a myth and then Stacy suggested
measure what matters and scaling up | believe, then | put my operators in charge of designing it was a it wasted a
year of our it didn't waste it we there were some successes from it, but they weren't the right people for the in the
right seats. That became really obvious when | got together on the three day with Stacy because not not saying how
your structure is but from my point of view what | felt like was Stacy drugged the architectural part out of me. Yep,
just like you said, then she put in place the implementation. And now I've taken another step past the three day and
her team is helping me with the maintenance side, which even without that part with just the three day, the two
companies compared me trying to go do those things myself, | don't feel like it was wasted knowledge, learning it.
But | feel like it was something that | could have gotten out of the three day all the way from the architectural part
and the high level vision, all the way down to the software that they use and how they structured it. And now | don't
have to spend time going back through traction. And | mean, that was my Bible, | was | have earmark all over the
place. I’m, I'm | don’t want to give the information back. But it’s not where my focus is. Today. My focus today is
moving forward, because I’m not stuck there anymore. And that that would be it would be really hard for me to make
the decision to go back through all that rather than handing it off to someone that already knows design.

Russ 31:03

Yeah, | mean, absolutely. You could sit there with a with a, you know, a piece of software and try and architect your
own house. Or you could go hire a professional architect, when you build custom homes, right? As a builder, who
would you want to start with, you want to start with a guy that bought the, you know, the 2995 software and design
their own home and hands it to you and says, Hey, build this?

31:24

Yeah, | don’t work with those guys anymore. | lost way too much money. Yeah,

Russ 31:27

you don't want to do that, you know, hire professional architect, give me a plan that’s actually buildable. And let's get
this thing blueprinted and go get it, go get it built. And so, yeah, all of that all of that is super important. | had
something else | was gonna say. But it's slipping my mind. Anybody have any questions or comments about any of
that? Because that's a really important point. | do think that, you know, it's not bad if you have people who are
operating a business for them to have a seat at the table of voice, but you can't give them the responsibility. In other
words, you know, they're not people who are wired that way, who are not going to, they're not going to build, right,
you're asking someone who has an employee mindset, and they just want to come to work and do a job, they want
to do a good job. And they want to be clear what defines a good job. And so you've said, Hey, here's the process,
here's how long it should take. And here's a metric that says you've succeeded. And if you do a great job, then there'll
be rewards. They like that. You know, other people would hate working on an assembly line, and just doing the same
thing over and over again, every day. I'm one of those guys, | would go crazy. But not everybody is like me. And when
you ask somebody who has an employment mindset, to be an entrepreneur, you know, they're a fish out of water, just
like me, as an entrepreneur, I'm a fish out of water. If you ask me to have an employee mindset, | don't | don't like to
do maintenance. | don't like to do the same thing over and over again. | like to, you know, I'm a visionary. | like to

think about what's next? And how can it be better? And how can | open up new markets? And how can | create new
wy staci Gray 1:00:39

JO

Jo

Jo

home. One of the things with interviewing, which is different than sales. So with sales, you tend to ask a lot of leading
questions, because you're leading them down a path when you're interviewing someone, if you tell if you show them
all of your cards, and ask them leading questions in terms of what your values are, and where you're headed. And alll
of this, they're going to answer it. So they get the job. So it’s different. So you try to ask questions, not in a way that
you're teeing them up to answer it correctly, which is what you do in sales, you answer in a way that you let them be
authentic, you want them to have permission to be exactly who they are. So you can evaluate if it's a match or not,
which is different than what you would do from a sales perspective. So | think that is important. | know that | have
definitely interviewed people, and they've told me all the right things, but then when it came down to execution, it
was not an alignment. Um, and then the other thing in interviewing people that you want to know, or at least | think
you want to know, with anyone is, are you going to be coming to me with ideas and ways to optimize and improve?
Or am | going to be coming to you to ask the questions to pull it out of you? So in when you have a team member or
an advisor, you want someone who when maybe you're okay with not but typically you would want somebody who is
thinking and looking at your scenario, in a very objective forward thinking fashion, because they're coming at it from
a different perspective to offer that to you, because that's what the value in it otherwise, you could just do it yourself
or find somebody who's just going to check all the boxes.

Russ 1:02:23

Okay, well, we're at the end of time, | think we had a good session. Is anybody have any, you know, like, Jeremy, why

don't we button up with you since this was your question and make sure that we answered it to your satisfaction?

1:02:36

No, that's perfect. | really appreciate it. And | think I'll be a little more prepared. | go research a little bit more on, on
what | need to ask on those questions. You know, where the, they're a little more tuned to me and what | am looking

for, and then | think that'll make that call a lot more productive.

Russ 1:02:54

Good. Well, | look forward to hearing how it goes. Okay. Well, appreciate everybody being on the call. And | think we
had a good session. So everybody have a great day inner circle. | guess I'll talk to you tonight for the book. Steady
call.

1:03:06
Tonight. All right. Yeah, later.

1:03:08
Thank you. Thanks.
JO

that your customers will suffer from that the hardest thing to do. It's why it's so hard to go from being an S to being a
B in the Cashflow Quadrant, it's letting go it's it's taking that big red s off your chest, it says you are the best man or
woman for every job. And you need to be intimately involved in every aspect of your business, you can be aware,
being aware, I'm not saying don't be aware of what's going on in your business. But you don't have to be intimately
involved. You just have to be aware. And you have to make yourself available to the people that need you to make
those strategic decisions, those those those major decisions where something isn't fitting culturally, or maybe
threatening the mission, or violating the vision or your core values. And then then that's, that's where you're a good
team is going to bring that to your attention and say, Hey, we're doing things that don't fit who we are, do we want
to change who we are? Or do we want to stop doing these things? Hey, we're involved with people who don't fit who
we are, do we want to change who we are? Do we want to move this person in to a different situation or out
completely, and you're constantly evaluating what you're doing against your culture against your mission, you know,
culture, being values, and against your mission. And then, you know, the easy part, when you have those clear is
dealing with strategy and tactics. | know that seems overwhelming to a lot of you. But as you've seen from you know,
Stacey, you know, once you have that kind of system and you're not implemented, getting strategy and tactics is
easy. The reason you have to put so much work into that three day is because it takes her that long to pull your
vision out of you, because most of you aren't as clear as you think you are. Because she's got to pull and pull and pull

Jeremy comment.

48:27

Well, I've got a question. Sure. So macro we we need to find team members micro actually have to sit down with a
potential team member in and have a consultation with them. If | had syndicated for 20 years and used Mauricio the
whole time and Risa says hey, I’m retiring. I'm going to do this and | have to go find a new syndication attorney. I'm
going to know a little bit about what I'm looking for. Because I've had experience with a good team member. And |
have a little bit of knowledge without having to go be the expert. However, right now | have a CPA and I've been
working with them. He answers my questions when | ask the answer sound great. | don't feel like | have the
experience level to know that he’s the best CPA for the job for my investors. | have a consultation with Mike pine
swissbit Yesterday, whether it's got a shovel back to tomorrow, | doubt it happens tomorrow, because weather hasn't
gotten any better. But say it does. How can | be best prepared to have a consultation to hire a team member? That's
a very important team member, but | don't really know what to ask him or how | know whether he's a good team or
not because | lacked that experience.

Russ 49:36

Well, I'm sure Stacy will have something to say let me talk for a bit and then we'll turn it over to her. And if anybody
else has a comment on this, that's great because you all have experiences business people bringing people on
board. You know, for me, you have to have an alignment first of all, so you have to be really clear about what your
needs are. So you're saying hey, my current CPA, you know, maybe My gut is telling me or | feel that he may not be
the right person for the job, therefore, I'm going to shop around, but | would dig in to where those feelings are coming
from and try to really quantify what is it? Is he not proactive? Have you had specific situations, | mean, try to figure
out if this person on a scale of one to 10 was a 10, based on what you know, so ask yourself, you know, the guy that
I'm working with right now, where would | rate him on a scale of one to 10? And then ask yourself, what makes him
that number? What are the things that are working? And then ask yourself, what are the things that are missing? And
you're gonna know some and maybe you don't know what you don't know. But you know, you use their something
prompting you to do this, right, there’s something there, you got to dig in and figure out what that is. And so now
you're clear about your needs are more clear about your needs. Then when you interview the person, you want to
find out? What are their strengths and weaknesses, and ask them to define for that you an ideal client. So first, you
want to find out about their strengths and weaknesses. You know, when we're interested in, in how many clients like
me, do you have? How much time do you spend in the space because, you know, tax and accounting is a big, big
space, keeping books for a solar panel company is different than, you know, for a software company is different than
for, you know, a retail company might be different for a construction company. So how much time do you spend with
clients that are, where you're answering questions and dealing with real life scenarios that are like the ones I'm likely
to face? | want to know that. And then | want to know, from a compatibility perspective, what kind of clients they like,
you know, if you if he could pick one of his better clients, you know, what does he like best about them, what makes
him a great client, you know, when you have a problem client, what, what creates the issues, because you're just
looking for alignment. So you want to make sure that the person is going to enjoy you as a client, that their skill set is
going to match your needs coming in. And you kind of start with that. Now, you may come in with a couple of real
life scenarios that you've had and say, Hey, | had a situation recently. And this is what happened. If | were to come to
you with this problem, what would you say? And put them through a role play role model? You know, just see, you
know, does a guy deer in the headlights? Does he have no idea? Is that the kind of question you would expect him to
know, off the top of your head? So you can, you know, you could do little things like that, you know, maybe it’s less
important because of the relationship to make sure that the personality test, you know, like, personality tests, and all
that kind of stuff are in place. But | think | think, you know, all great relationships start within about an alignment of
values, and goals. And then the other thing is just talking about the communication, is how are we going to work
together? And if that works, right, some people like to send long emails, | hate to read long emails, | want to have a
conversation. You know, so those are different things. But to me that, to me, the top two are an alignment of values
and goals. If you're a great client for them, and you're in, they're a great CPA for you, and you value the same things.
And then you kind of match up a communication style, because a big part of it is communication. And | think you've
nailed a lot of it. Then you can talk about things like what is the contract look like? How much you're going to charge
out? Is it is it a package? Is it by the hour? Who backs you up? What happens if something happens to you? You
know, am | left in the lurch? You know, do you have a team? Are you one person band? Right? Those are things I'm
concerned about? Because | want redundancy at all vital functions, even vendors, by got a person who's a one man
band, as a vendor, I'm concerned about that unless they have a viable backup and | just want to know. Okay, so
Stacy, you have something on that side. You know, Jana does Okay, Jana.

Janna Hubbs 53:53

Right. We went through this many years ago. And we continue to refine, but what | did is | took a look at what it was
that | was wanting, and the CPA, and we had a CPA that had committed suicide, and then we went with somebody
else and not because of my books, but anyway, so | put together a list of questions. Part of that was the legal
changes that were taking place, that current year to find out where they were at. The other part was that
communication piece and I'm a firm believer that | have to have somebody whether it’s myself or somebody else
overseeing the process and for checks and balances and so | set up a system for what are the Look Fors in the
bookkeeping because to just give everything away and trust that it's going to get done perfect or with the the right
mind in 10 then it’s not going to happen necessarily because they've caught gotta constantly. | guess the other part
is that the CPA is familiar with your organizational charts and your systems within your investments and syndications
and so that they are familiar with that. And so that when they do, say K ones, for your investors that they that it’s
aligned with your operating docs. And so there has to constantly be that piece. The other part that was important to
me, and that, as we interviewed the, | think we interviewed for people | had screened for seven or eight. And was that
communication back and forth. And the fact that it’s imperative to me that when | have questions, or when
something comes up, that I'm able to communicate with them and not have to wait for a long period of time,
because time is expensive. And, you know, for that the cost per hour was an issue for me, because | was looking for
one of the best | needed to know that they were interested, that we educate Randy and | educate ourselves a lot. We
are constantly educated ourselves, not me, | needed to know that they were willing to be educated as well. And that
they were willing to be educated by some of the people that we were educating, being educated by or reading some
of the books that we felt were really key in our business and so that their values aligned with our values and systems.
And so that's kind of what | looked at for that. And the other question, or the other part was, how did they feel if |
questioned or challenged, | don't like to use the requester challenge. But if | question, something that they were
doing, because I'm a learner, and | want to know what the analogy is, so that hopefully, if | have a question from an
to bring both capital and deal flow, you're able to move quicker and quicker and quicker and quicker, and have an
idea, you know, especially you know, if you're in a fairly competitive environment, and maybe you want to try and
trim your management expense, or you got a deal you really want to do for some other reason, and you're willing to
take a little bit of haircut on your fees, because you want it on your resume, or you want to be in the deal, you got to
know where you can cut that's realistic, you know not are you just going to take a take a shot in the dark. So anyway,
it's a great tool obviously takes quite a bit of work to get it all set up. But you don't have to eat the whole dinosaur.
You know, you can pick your, your critical processes to start with those and then work out from there. But, but it's a
very, very important part of organizing your business. And | think it's where, again, a lot of syndicators fail in this
area. And so if you can get really really good at it, then you actually have a competitive advantage. So much so that
you can you can show in to some of your prospective investors, how you do things. You know, when | was in the office
products industry, we had a very automated warehouse you know, we were in the distribution side so it wasn't like
some retail store where stuff was on the shelf. | mean, we go into this big massive warehouse and if you can imagine
Amazon you know with conveyor belts and and all the things that were there and We were showing how it was
organized to minimize how much time it took for people to pick product and get it in the box and how we use
standardized boxes. And you know how the things were staged. And all of that was to show how we could provide a
high level of service at a low price, which, of course, combination of service and price is value. So you're
demonstrating how you can produce high value by showing how efficient your operations are. We, you know, you
guys can do the same thing. And then the story there is because I'm efficient, | don't need to charge as much on my
management fee goes more to the bottom line in the profit sharing which we both, you know, share. That way at the
same time, you're justifying your management expense, because you're showing to them the things that all have to
happen to run their deal, and all the value that you're adding by doing that. And I'm not suggesting you open up and
show them the detailed SOP. But some of these people are going to be business people. | mean, you know, Jeremy
when he came in, from the construction side of business, | mean, correct me if I'm wrong, Jeremy, | don't want to talk
out of school. But a couple of the conversations we had was, gosh, all this stuff. I'm learning about organizing my my
syndication business, I'm applying to my construction business, and I'm seeing gains I'm seeing improvement.
Absolutely, yeah. So. So these are these are, you know, to me, everything’s marketing. You know, at the end of the
day, everything's marketing. But your great tight bookkeeping, great tight accounting operations, you know, when
you especially when you show them redundancy, and you show them why if anything were to happen to you, or if
anything were to happen, anybody keep person on your team, that you've got them covered? Because you know,
people are naturally going to worry about their money. And a smart person is going to say, Gee, what happens if
something happens to you? See, that's okay. You know, my company is not me, my company is a team. And this is
what my team works off of. And I've organized the business in such a way that you know, that, that you've got
redundant systems for the critical functions so that your investment is going to be well tended to, even if we have
some turnover, even if | have a life event that helps set people at ease. Okay, so | think that was a good topic. We
don't have any other questions. Craig had a question that came in, that I'm not going to answer because it's really
not suitable for operations. | wanted to know, ask if an investment could be qualified. And that's really more probably
of a Murray SEO question. I'm not even sure what he means by qualified. So. But anyway, let's get back to
operations. So, you know, we're 18 minutes in, we got up to an hour, but we don't have any other questions. So well,
we're waiting for you to Well, let me just ask this. Does anybody have a question? They'd like to ask specific about

operations that they came on the call? Jana?

@ Janna Hubbs 17:48

| submitted two questions to you. While we were talking? Did you see those?

© Russ 17:54

Oh, in chat. Now you're making these old eyes try to work?
JO

context for it. So part of it | mean, you're super organized and process for to Janice with Jana, sorry, with your, um,
your, you know, when you organize things, because of your work with the kids and everything. So just, you organize it
in a very simple format, so that anybody can get in and know. So a lot of people know, org chart. So we organize the
G Suite folders based on department. So sales, marketing, operations, tech, people can bucket it that way. If you if
you custom tailor it to your specific business that you're in right now, it’s not duplicatable, to another type of business
or brand that you're going to start. But everybody has lead magnets, everybody has a brand guide, everyone has a
target market, those are big bucket things that you can just put that is leverageable across brands. Um, so that's how
| set it up. And then that the infrastructure that | use with all of our clients, Jeremy, and David are in that same
model.

Janna Hubbs 21:39
Alright, thank you.

21:40

And since they set me up in G Suite for the new syndication company, |, it took me a minute, but I've transferred our
construction company into a similar setup because of how well it worked and flowing through. But if | just looked up
G Suite without knowing the way they set it up, | don’t know that | would have gotten there, anywhere close to the
same timeframe. Like there's a lot that that Stacy's team already had built in on like, kind of how to use it and how to
flow and | don't really know, software like that. But that that may be a personal thing. It may be something everyone
just, you know, already works in and | don't | don't work in it. And they showed me, you know, a different level.

Russ 22:27

Yeah, it really comes down to two different philosophies, you know, the one philosophy is trying to conserve dollars at
the expense of time. And the other one is trying to conserve time, at the expense of dollars, you know, when you hire
somebody to come in, who really knows how to do something at a high level, you can go from start to finish quicker,
because they can execute, but they cost money. And when you try to figure it out yourself, then you're burning time,
but you save a little bit of money, at least in terms of outflow, you know, and then you just have to make a business
decision about opportunity costs, you know, the time that you spend doing that, what, what are you not doing? And
is it the highest best use of your time, | happen to be a big fan of, you know, focusing on what you're really good at,
and the critical functions and trying to get as many things off my plate to somebody else who knows how to do them
at a higher level than me. But again, you know, that's because as a business person, | think you always have to know
the shortest path to cash. And when you decide, hey, | want to do something, you have to immediately ask yourself,
How am | going to pay for this? Well, if | buy back my time, and | know exactly how to find the shortest path, the cash
| put my time back into going and getting that cash. That's how | pay for the help that | need. And so again, it's not a
right or wrong answer. You just have to know where you're at in the process. And you know, one of the one of the
challenges for a students you know, and Kiyosaki makes fun of a students all the time is they tend to like to solve
problems, they like it. It's a personal, it’s a personal satisfaction, like doing a crossword puzzle or something, it’s, it’s,
I'm going to take this problem, I'm going to solve it because I'm a problem solver. And the act of solving the problem
becomes more fun than either trying to free up your time from solving small problems. So you can focus on big
problems. Or, you know, or solving more problems faster by getting more people on board so that you're part of the
problem solving team. But the first problem you're solving is how do | get more people on board to solve more
problems faster, right? Again, so philosophically, those are just things to think about. You know, | spent a long time
being a do it yourselfer, and I've abandoned that in many areas, not all of them, | probably still haven't fully let go.
You know, | think we all have our little areas that we'd like to hold on to, but you just have to continually evaluate as

the owner, what your role is in either speeding the system up or clogging it. You know, | know the team gets upset
°
O)

giving over to operators who were you know, the property managers on a building or whatever | mean, the actual
organization of a syndication business is pretty simple because cuz a lot of it is just project management oversight,
administrative stuff, communication, marketing, things like that, you know, there probably are some things that you
have to do. They're fairly sophisticated, but not a lot. That’s one of the things | love about this business, it's relatively
simple at the part that we have to manage.

Staci Gray 10:18

And then additionally, when work is getting done, the work is being done based on the SOP. So any even if someone
is doing it over and over and over again, they work off of the SOP, so that it's ensured that the SOP is always up to
date. And then every 90 days when we do a 90 day review, because we do we run all the businesses in 90 day cycles,
we review the process maps and the SOPs to make sure that there is nothing that we need to update before so we're
continually updating them as we go throughout a 90 day period. But prior to due to a 90 day review, we do what we
call a sop audit, and we just audit all the SOPs, all the process maps to make sure that they're exactly what they
need to be and then with the brand owner, so you with your team would look at it and say, do we need to improve
the workflow somehow? Is there something we want to automate is something breaking down from a strategic
perspective, and then you update them and then put them into circulation for the next 90 days, and give it a go. And
then you update them again, if things changed.

Russ 11:28

And one of the other things is you you know, you can compare a timesheet, for example, to how much time
something should take and part of it could be like, | go back way back to my mortgage experience, where | found out
that my people were standing there in front of a cheap inkjet printer that was printing, color appraisals exceedingly
slow. And we could increase productivity simply by buying a high speed color printer, you know, and | was able to
quickly do the math and go okay, well, this is a good ROI. Buy this printer for a couple $1,000. And I'm going to save
all this money in labor, my people aren't going to be standing around. Okay. All right. That was a good question.
Anybody have any questions or follow up with regard to that particular topic? Before we switch gears?

12:15

| was just reading the free to focus book and it was talking about that. About how to set up the systems, it’s in
chapter on page 127 125, which started so that’s good. And it kind of breaks it down as well, kind of like what Stacy
was saying.

Russ 12:42

Yeah, | mean, it's like football, there's different systems, there's different ways to organize what you're doing. But the
point is, you got to have a system. Because if you don't have a system, you don't have any way to create consistency,
you don't have anything to train to you don't have anything to hold accountability to you don't have anything to
measure, you're just it’s a free for all. And the worst thing is, is that when people leave a lot of your IP or how to walks
out the door, and then you know, when the buck stops on your desk, it’s the entrepreneur, then you've got to go in
and you've got to figure it out. And often you're the least qualified person to figure it out. And now your business is a
mess, because you're in there trying to do something, you have no idea what to do, you're not qualified for you don't
know where the bodies are buried, you don't have any backup or redundancy, you don’t have any documentation. |
mean, it's just a disaster. So these are, these are the structures that you have to put in place early in your syndication
career. So that as you begin to get traction with you're building your brand and building your network, which is going
FANIU SU TH UY TL) Pt LURK U HLUIS WIL GWUUE IL UT ly PSISpPSCUVE, UU LISI rise QuuLy reUny Hn) Gn unis USLULD,
because that's where the devil is. So you know, you, you can look at anything in, in a process, and and what you need
to think about, and she'll, you know, if you work with Stacey, or someone like Stacey, they're gonna pull you through
that process. And you can start anywhere, you start anywhere you say, you know, | always like to try to figure out
what the beginning is like in a sales process, its first contact, first impression all the way through to them giving you
referrals or re upping, and that's the lifecycle of whatever it is you're talking about. So you kind of have to define

what the lifecycle is. But you know, sometimes that's hard. And so what you do is you just pick a point, you pick
something, you know, whatever the topic is that you have to work on is okay, this is something | have to do inside of
that process. Well, in order to do that, what do | have to do before that, and then you work backwards until you get
to the beginning. And then going forward, it’s the same thing. After | do this, what do | do next? And then you just
keep going until you feel like you've exhausted the life cycle. And then when you do that front and back, you have
what I'd call the scope and sequence of a process. And then underneath each one of those steps, is a procedure, how
do you do that step? Or maybe it's a series of steps to do that component, and it breaks down. And then that's where
it kind of gets into the tactical. And that's where CeCe puts together her document with the swim lanes and roles
and responsibilities and who owns you know, what process and making sure there's only one owner and all that kind
of stuff? So stay? So I'll let you pick it up from there because I've probably already exceeded my, my brilliance in the

matter.

®) Staci Gray 03:20

JO

Where are you at? Because | know the last time we talked, you have some of your you were working on some of your
SOPs. And then you are trying to put it into kind of like the assembly line, which is the process mapping? Is that kind

of where you're at?

03:34

Yeah, yeah, we're trying to just get a better feel for you know, the techniques of putting that all you know, together to
where it makes sense. And then putting the SOPs within the different bubbles. And then, of course, trying to come up
with | don't know, |, we looked at some stuff on the line where you can, you know, some subscribe or even have free
mapping kinds of guidelines. But it'd be really nice to be able to click on a Bible that didn’t that has all the SOPs
underneath it. And | don't know, you know, that's a software thing that you've gone through and refined down to and
have one choice over another, we talked about actually putting it in a part of our website that's not really accessible
to someone else, because you have that kind of capabilities to do that kind of stuff within a website, too. So

Staci Gray 04:19

just kind of be okay. Let me share my screen.

Russ 04:23

Let me empower you to do that one moment, please see Stacy gray. Oh, you did it. You

® Staci Gray 04:32

and David will know what this looks like because they both have it. But when we do a three day, like Rob said, we go

through what your sales funnel is. And then we identify for a syndicator your 10 core processes that you need to do in

nvalAr FA AR ALANEAR Ae Aiininannn AWA HAAR aA ALA ANAL AF FARA RAR AR Al nit HA AW IAEA WN REAR RA RR RAR AKA th AN Alen
_)oO

products? And how can | be more strategic, right, and the organization needs somebody to put their focus on being
that visionary, and really, nobody can do that. But you that's really what you have to develop. That's why you know,
when you come in the inner circle program is Jeremy and David know, the first thing we ask you is about your vision,
your vision in your values, because that's the basis of everything you're going to do. You don't have to necessarily ask

that of your of your frontline workers. You know, | mean, come on, crushed. Yeah, go ahead.

ao |

| completely crushed my three to three best people, | took my three best people and put them in this design position.
And it just the weight was horrible. And like, it wasn't a fun place to work. And everything bad that could be about it
was was it was productive. But it was it was bad. And then | made them feel like they failed me. When | took that
away from them. Even though | explained to him, Hey, this is my fault, | put you in the wrong position, then they feel
like | failed them. And now that I've taken them back, taking it back over and mate, and they've calmed down a little
bit from it, just 30 days after it. It's 100% Different place to work. Yeah. And | can do what | was trying to drag them
through. Different because | and now | can process it to where maybe | can hand it to someone but differently.

Russ 34:14

Yeah. | mean, you think about it, you know, Tom Brady, arguably the greatest quarterback that's ever lived. If you put
them out at wide receiver, he’s going to fail. He's gonna fail. He's not wired for that. You take one of those big
linemen and put them at running back. They're gonna fail. They're great athletes, but they're in the wrong position.
So your responsibility is to get the right people in the right seats. And that’s part of knowing who your people are,
what their personality is, you know, there's there's a lot of things there's a lot of nuances to that. And a lot of times
what we do is we focus on assigning people according to our need, instead of according to what's a good match.
And you know, CeCe could probably talk a little bit more about that than me. | tried to get out of that, but | know
she goes through personally tests with people, she tries to really understand, you know, their sweet spot, like we
talked about in personal personal syndication philosophy and try to have people, you your mission, as a leader is to
put your people in a position to be successful, they want to be successful. And the problem is when you put them in a
position, as you're saying, Jeremy to not be successful through no fault of their own, because you're just asking them
to play a position. They're not geared for when you take the position back, because they love you. They feel like
they've let you down. And it's awfully hard to help them understand that, you know, that’s why | use simple analogies,
like football people get that right away. | mean, Tom, Tom Brady is as slow as uh, | mean, you know, he never be a
wide receiver, you can barely run, but he can throw the ball like nobody's business, right? You got to put people in a
position to succeed, Stace, you want to have any, you have any color on that?

Staci Gray 35:54

Well, Jeremy, I've done the same thing. | have put my best people in the worst spots, and then make them feel
demoted when | have to rearrange and it was no fault of their so | completely empathize with you. Now, I’m, when |
put people in seats, | tell them that the priority is the right person in the right seat, we're going to test it out. And if it’s
not a match, it's because it's not a match, like GW See, get it want a capacity to do it. And if we have to make a
transition, that's okay. And | and | even tell them, most of the people that have been with me have been with me for
years. And so | say, | don't expect that you're going to stay in this seat forever. Because if your growth is life is one of
our core values. And if you're growing and I'm pushing, and I'm in my sweet spot of expanding and growing, there's
going to be growth for you. So let's, let's do this, give it your all. And if it's not a match, it's not a match. And that's
okay, we have so much going on, there's a seat for you. So | kind of set the expectation now up front, so that when
there is transitions, they know that that's normal. But like you Jeremy, | build a lot of rapport with my team, | and |

emphasize that | really want them | think people are happiest and most fulfilled when they're in a seat where they're
contributing to something greater than themselves. And oftentimes, people don't have a vision that's big outside of
maybe who they're working for, which is what | want, | want somebody to come in and say | see your vision. And |
feel like | could come underneath you and push you forward. And my job as a leader is to empower them to do what
what the company needs them to do, but also what they innately want to do. And you're not gonna always get it
right. And | think the way | just did this recently with a team member, | didn’t get it right, and | had to go back. But
that also demonstrates to them that they're not always going to get it right. And then they can go back to you and
say, Hey, | didn't get it, right. And so it creates more of a high trust environment, when you're just honest. And you

own it, because it gives them permission to own it as well. And we're, you're not going to get it right all the time. But it
is very challenging. When you take your best players and make them feel like crap about themselves, it feels you feel
like you're a horrible leader?

@) Russ 38:07

Well, | think there's a, there’s a couple of points. You know, | mean, | look at things, just sports analogies tend to work
pretty well, especially some of these people have children and don't kind of get it. But, you know, kid goes out for a
sports team. And you know, whether it's soccer, whether it’s basketball, whatever it is, you kind of get a feel for, hey,
let's try you out in some different positions and kind of see where you excel where you're good. And that's okay. And
that brings up a bigger topic, which | think is an important one. And that is the culture that you create in terms of
making people feel safe. When things are dynamic. Because people who take jobs are looking for security. That's

why they take a job, they want a paycheck, they want somebody else the buck to stop on somebody else’s desk, they
don't want to make those hard decisions, don't feel qualified, whatever it is, right. And so and so when you have an
environment, it's dynamic, and you're moving people around to see where they fit and try to find that match. And
then when you're asking them to train their replacements and have very detailed SOPs, people who are insecure, are
trying to retain their value by becoming indispensable. And one of the things you have to explain to people is the
way to get disposed of is to make yourself indispensable. The way to retain is to make sure that you're replaceable.
Your job is to train your replacement and be able to replace other people and you explain to them that's for the
security, the stability of the business. Because if somebody gets sick, if somebody goes down and you're the only
person who knows how to do your job, then your teammates are at a disadvantage, right? Every sports team has a
backup. Even Tom Brady in the Super Bowl, if he would have gotten injured somebody was going to step in and take
his spot. The show must go on. And he's still going to get paid Check from that team while he’s out. And so you know,
when people have abundance mentality, and that is they have to feel safe. And they have to believe that you're
dedicated to creating more than if you're constantly singing out of that songbook, then they they start to feel safer.
And then over time through your behavior, when they find out that when you do take something back, they don't get
terminated, they just get repositioned. And then when they do well, you sing their praises from the rooftops, then that
begins to create that environment where people feel feel safer, to do the critical things you need to do, which is for
them to be flexible as you're trying to figure out where they go. And to be willing to give great quality training to
people who literally could replace them. They need to train people to the same level of competency that they have.
And so there's there's a cultural thing, you have to pay attention to that | think we've gotten pretty good at, actually.
But we had some issues in the beginning, because we couldn't get people they wouldn't train, they would hold back.
They were, you know, they were trying to they were trying to make sure that that we needed them. And we can't be in
a position where we're dependent on any one person, you have to explain to them not why you want that. But why
it's in their best interest that everybody's that way, you might say, well, | want to be indispensable, yes. But if your
teammate felt the same way, and they're indispensable, and then they go away, then the company suffers. And
that's where your paycheck comes from the company, if the company suffers because your teammate didn't do a
good job. And you as a good teammate did need to do a good job training people who can back you up at a high

level. That makes sense. So yes, you have anything on that?

G) Staci Gray 41:41
February 17, 2021 Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on
Business Opera...

@ Mon, 10/25 8:02PM @ 1:03:23

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, business, stacy, questions, sop, person, syndication, team, process, team member, talking, investors, big, sops, values,

feel, day, create, copa, company

SPEAKERS

Russ, Janna Hubbs, Staci Gray

) Russ 00:16

jo

JO

Hey syndication mentoring club. This is Russ. And we're here for another edition of Ask The mentors. And this time it’s
business operations for the month of February 2021. We got a good crowd, we only have one pre submitted, and
actually two pre submitted questions, and | don't see Craig, who had one of them. But Randy, you had one? So let's

start with you.

00:41

Sure. Can you hear me okay? Or am | speaking like,

Russ 00:43

no, no, nope. You would you don't sound like Minnie Mouse? You sound good.

00:47

Yeah, good. Yeah, so | just was hoping that we might be able to tag off of a meeting that we had last month, where
we were talking SAVs. But then we started bringing up the concept of process mapping. And just would like to learn a
lot more about, you know, how you implement those and, you know, things that we might be able to, you know,
shortcuts where we might be able to really get moving faster, forward compressing timeframes, based on your

knowledge and expertise.

Russ 01:19

Yeah, so there's two sides to it, there’s your side of it, which is trying to kind of identify in big chunks, what needs to

happen. And, and then there's the detail of how do you organize that all into a document that a team can follow.

AnaA crm Vl crn it Vil FAIL awa littla hit nha it it frum PYAAT RAKOKHKNS +i Tn nN vA than Vil lAt CHAR, raanlhs Fill in all tha Anataile
investor, I'm able to answer that question freely. And so those were some of the things that were quite important to
me as we were searching for a great CPA. And then when we have some changes within the system, | guess the other
part was that with our bookkeeper, that the CPA was willing to communicate via zoom or whatever with our
bookkeeper and other people that were in the system, so that we could make sure that everybody was aligned in
how documents or information was put into our QuickBooks, company files, and we have like 21 different company
files. And so it's imperative, and they're different types of company files. So it was imperative that everybody was
aligned with that and willing to maintain that education.

© Russ 57:41

Yeah, so one of the things that we talked about, you know, Robert, and | have talked about this forever on the show
the five things, five questions, ask any provider, you know, obviously, are they an investor themselves? In this case?
Are they a syndicate? | don't know that that's 100%. Accurate? I'm more interested in how many clients that they
have that are in the same space. But one of the big ones is, do you play well with others, because a lot of times,
you're going to want your CPA on the phone with your attorney, reviewing the operating agreement, making sure the
books are set up, and that the books are compliant with the responsibilities and and, and promises that you've made
in that operating agreement. That's really important. Another thing too, Jeremy, to me, is the CPAs part of your team.
So you want to know a little bit about their cache? In other words, do they have some brand equity do they have
other notable clients that they may be able to point to? So you can say that, hey, my CPA CPA CPA did this notable
project or that notable project. And of course, that should be okay with them, given that they have the clients
permission, because it's good for the client, the client gets promoted, it's good for the CPA because the CPA gets
promoted. And it's good for you, because you get credit for being affiliated with this person and their team. In other
words, they become part of your team. And so through association, you have more credibility, because you have a
credible team member. So that's a part of it. And then the other part too, is like for example, Dave Zook likes to bring
Tim Gertz down to Belize, and they sit there and they do a tax session with their investors at the beach club at NBv.
And, you know, I'm not suggesting you do something like that. But it might be nice to know that, you know, find out
from someone, would you be willing to do a zoom calll, like an investor call, maybe a tax time? How willing are you to
talk with in our investors CPAs. If their CPA has a question about something we've done, are you willing to get
involved in that? So you know, in other words, how is this person going to support your overall business, not just the
taxes and the bookkeeping, but how are they going to support your overall business? Because to me, everything's
about marketing, everything's about positioning. Obviously, | like Mike. | mean, | brought Mike into the program, but
you know, | haven't known him that long. | think he’s a great guy. He came highly recommended. And part of it was
because he's very active in the syndication space. And this is where he lives. So I'd be very curious to see how it goes.
But those are the types of things you know whether you're talking to him or anybody else, or any team member, for
any reason, is just kind of thinking about all those. How do you support my marketing efforts? What relationships do
you bring to the table? What brand cachet or association do you bring? What makes me an ideal client? What
makes you an ideal client? All that sorry, my things telling me we're at the end here, stop it. Stop it. Okay.

(8) Staci Gray 1:00:37

Um,

& Russ 1:00:38

yeah, | will take us
() Staci Gray 18:00

| don't see anything in chat. It came

© Russ 18:02

to me. Only | think. Yeah. So it says could you have Stacey send me the process for how to create a sop and how to
update a sop? | don't know about that. So I'll leave that up to Stacy and why why do you recommend to help develop
the system in G Suite? Okay, so yeah, let's talk about G Suite stays

@) Janna Hubbs 18:24

good. Not why who?

© Russ 18:28

Oh, who do you recommend to help develop? Ah, gotcha. Not why who? | told you these old eyes. You know, the
screen is pretty far away from me behind the camera, so | can’t quite see it. Okay. So yeah, did yesterday's. How did

you figure out G Suite? Did you do that on your own? Did you hire a consultant that Google help you? How'd you get
it done?

@® Staci Gray 18:45

| decided muted. No, | decided on my own most of what we have infrastructure wise, | just created. I'm from | mean, |
read Emeth and | read a lot of organizational books. But those aren't really their theory. They're not really specific
how to. So what's so interesting is so Stephanie, my sister, our minds are completely different. So she runs the
sponsor department for the real estate guys and she had a way of setting herself up. And one example actually
talked about it with one of our team members today she set up we do all the special reports you know, all of the CTA
special reports that you guys see in the real estate guys, podcasts and special reports library, CTA

© Russ 19:33

call to action just for anybody who doesn't know what that is?

) Staci Gray 19:37

Yes. So the way she had organized it is she bucketed them all based on topics so anything that was talked about
economics, she put in a bucket anything that was about tax, she put in a bucket, anything about agriculture, she put
in a bucket anything about financing, she put in a bucket. Well then she tried to delegate that to the team. They
didn't know the content. So they're trying spending hours trying to figure out if this report should go into economics
or if this report should go into financing, and they couldn't figure it out. So Steph came to me and said, Can you just
redo this because it's not working. | said, Yeah, I’m just going to make it alphabetical. Everybody knows their ABCs if
it starts with an A, it goes in this bucket, it goes in this bucket. And so | just completely redid the whole thing. And
now the team takes two seconds for them to know where to put something. Whereas previously, they didn't have the
Well, there's this saying, and | don't know where | heard it, or who quoted it, but it’s community creates behavior, and
leaders create community. And it's really why I'm so strong about culture, because culture really creates the type of
behavior you want in your team. But the leaders are the ones that create that culture. So as leaders of all we focus
on are primarily focused on is the culture and the culture is anchored to your values. So if you know what your values
are, your job as a leader is just to live your values every single day and every single moment and model it for your
team. And then they will do the same because you're creating that community. And their behavior will reflect that.

Russ 42:26

| think in a recent ask the mentors, | brought this up, but | think it bears repeating. | used to think it started with
mission. But it really doesn't, it starts with values, because your mission grows out of your values. So the first thing
you have to think about is what are what are my values, what do | value most, you know, one of my highest values is
freedom. | like being free. That's why I'm an entrepreneur, | don’t want to have a job, | want to have freedom. | you
know, the way | am kind of politically and the things | believe in, and what | want to do for the world all involve
empowering freedom. So very, very high value for me. And it's reflected in everything that | do. So my mission, or my
missions, the things that are important to me, that | dedicate myself to really are based in that core value, that high
value of freedom. And so when you find out what your value is, whatever it is, then your mission will come out of that
or maybe missions depending on demographics, you know, you have a mission for your family, you have a mission
for your, your team, you have a mission for the community and your customers. And those missions should all reflect
from that base set of values that you have. Obviously, if you've been through the goals retreat with Robert, you've
had some time to really work on those, but someone here is watching has never been through, create your future and
ever take the time to really dig deep and find out what are your most passionate, most empowering values, take
some time and figure that out. Because if you get that part right, then then your mission will start to become clearer.
And then out of your mission will come your vision. And as | say all the time when you have clarity of vision, strategy
and tactics become obvious, especially if you can deal with somebody that's good at organizing tactics. So that's
where you bring in somebody like a Stacey with you got this big vision, she'll pull it out of you in a way that she can
organize a team and processes and milestones around it. Now you've got a way to go from dream to reality. And
that's what this is all about. And so that's step one is how do you go from conception, you know, hey, | have an idea. |
want to build a business to actually having a business. And then the next level up is how do | grow that business
where it gets stronger as it gets bigger, it doesn't get weaker. And those are two different components of what you
have to have in your model. That's why you have redundancy at critical functions. That's why you have excess
capacity where you're reinvesting in continuous improvement. That's why you have to test every process if | double
triple this, do | have any bottlenecks, weak links Most of the time, the owner, that's us, ladies and gentlemen, we're
the weak link. Because the business can only grow as high as we will allow it to, which means we have to let go.
Because we can't be the choke point. Because as brilliant as we may be as dedicated as we may be, we are only one
human being, there are only 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, we have frail bodies, we have
human relationships, we're subjected to distraction, and discouragement like anybody else. And so if you don't, if you
don't have that organized properly, and you haven't built it around systems and teams, and redundancies and
business models that fund all the vital functions, then sooner or later, your growth will reveal the flaw in your model.
And it, you know, hopefully, you'll have the sense to recognize it soon, rather than wait until it's absolutely
overwhelming, because you can become the victim of your own success and all sudden your business collapses. And
it takes your investors and your brand with you. And now it's like Chutes and Ladders, and you were about to win.
And you're all the way down at the beginning of the game again, and it takes a long time to rebuild. So it's better to
get this stuff right early. And then again, really focus on being honest with yourself about about what what your
limitations are. And that's another advantage. Because when you bring in a third party to help you with all of this,
especially somebody who has a willingness to call you out, you have to give the person who's doing this your
permission to call you out. Right, if you're the choke point, they have to, they have to be able to tell you that you
have to be willing to own that. Because if you just say, Well, you know, I'm gonna do what | want, because it's my
business, blah, blah, blah, and the person is telling you yes, but you're choking the business. Well, then, you know,
you're going to you're going to suffer from that. But worse, you're your mission. And your team is going to suffer from
JO

with me from time to time because | tend to be more of a A constant, if you will, then somebody that makes things
happen, | get in the way, | clog things up, because | want to have a say, | want to understand. And sometimes, you
know, I'm just learning more and more, I've just got to let go and let them do it. And of course, they have to earn your
trust, right? You don't let go too soon I've, I've gone from delegating, you know, trying to delegate and miss
understanding what that meant, and abdicating where | just walk away. And |, | don’t know what's going on, | don't
have any idea if they're doing a good job or not doing a good job, | don't have any points of contact, | just go do
what | want to do, and hope everything else is taken care of. And, you know, you might be able to get away with that,
and some small businesses where it’s only your money at stake. But if you if you get that wrong, and with investor
money, then that that can be a problem. And sadly, I've done that, too. Okay. All right. So that was good. Any other
questions or comments on that particular topic?

25:56

Russ, don't you? Oh, don't you? Um, | think I've heard you set it up before as like, there’s there you have your design
team. And then you have an operational team? That's kind of different and such three. Okay,

Russ 26:09

yeah, there's three. So so the first thing you do is you have your design team. And your design team, you know, using
a building analogy, which you're going to get right away is your architectural team. So you know, what does the
customer want this thing to look like when it’s all finished. And then you know, you have your art, you know, from your
your design team, you're going to have your implementation team. And those are the people that have to build it,
they have to spec it out, right, you have to go from an architectural design to a blueprint. So you may, you know,
when you're on the architectural side, you're talking about, you know, aesthetics, you're talking about strategy, you're
talking about things like that, right. That's where | live. And then and then an implementation team is going to be
somebody like Stacey, who takes that vision and then blueprints it and turns it into something. And then from that
blueprint, you're going to take and create a, you're going to have a maintenance team that people actually run it. So
you know, you're going to have a group of people that design the building, you're going to have group people that
build the building, let's say a hotel, and then you're going to have a group of people that operate the hotel. They're
all three different teams. What | used to do is take the people want it to operate the hotel and give them the
responsibility of designing or building. And they weren't, people who are good at operating something that already
exists aren't very good at creating structure out of nothing. That's, that’s where that’s, you know, candidly, that's
where a lot of syndicators fail, because they really want to jump in and operate their business, but they haven't taken
the time to design it or implement it. And so, you know, what somebody like Stacy does is pull out of you your vision,
and your your, your big, hairy, audacious goal, and your three and five and 10 year plan, and then back that in two
big milestones, you know, yearly goals, quarterly goals, and then you got to break those things down into into scope
and sequence of milestones, you know, what are these big chunks that I've got to do to get that thing to accomplish
that this quarter. And then, and then | got to break that down into the SOPs. And then it's going to fall into two
categories, you're going to have projects that are things that you're going to build, it's maybe a piece of
infrastructure, and once it's built, it's kind of done. There’s not as much work to do like building a website or putting
together a chart of accounts, or a legal entity structure and insurance, strategy, whatever it is, you got to blueprint,
all of that. And then other things are going to be ongoing, you're going to build a system and you're going to
constantly be raising money, you're going to be constantly filing documents, you're going to constantly be preparing
tax returns, you're going to constantly be you know, running marketing programs to solicit new investors to nurture
them. And so there's going to be recurring things and project things. But they all kind of fit into the same thing. You
know, you got to design them, you got to, you know, you know what | call Imagineer them then you got to have
somebody actually blueprint them. And then you've got to have figure out the people who are going to operate them
especially if they're recurring, how is this thing going to be maintained on a recurring basis Those are three different
groups of people.
UIUEl LU UPETULE yUUF VUDSITIESS. ANU LET WE LUKE CULT UF LIUSE UU PUL LEI HILO UG Process miup anu wiiue youre
looking at is a process map. So on the left hand side is what we call swim lanes. And this is a single owner, it's a role
based owner, not a person, but a role based owner. And you have a start and an end to a process. So this is a super
simple one. And this is show you like this is a more complex one with all the decision diamonds. And then you
everything has a start in it. And so the handoff is usually from a previous process or previous workflow into a process
and then the exit is either into a nurture campaign or into a next workflow. Does that make sense? Yeah, okay. And
then each of these link to a saw. So when your team is working, they're working off of in delegating, it's much easier
for the team to work in an assembly line. So they have context for what they're doing, when you delegate just the
SOP, in my experience, when you when you do that the person doesn't really have context for what they're doing.
And so they just do the steps, but they can't identify if what they're receiving is accurate, or what they're handing off
is accurate and setting everything up for success in terms of the entire workflow. But that you put each step in its
swim lane, link it to the SOP. And then when you delegate, you delegate the entire process map for Hey, you're you're
the HR swim lane in this process, you're the owner in this process, you're the rule supervisor in this process, and then
they know exactly who there should be getting something from and who they should be giving something to. Got it.

Russ 06:59

Yeah, so it's, you know, the assembly line, that's exactly what it is, or like a relay race where someone's got to grab
the baton, and then hand the baton. And they have to carry the baton for a period of time. And then the key to
consistency is when everybody's working off the SOP, then you know, the people in the role become interchangeable.
And in the ideal world, every every function, every procedure has a backup. So that if you're down somebody,
somebody can step right in. And if the SOPs are well organized, at least for the basic stuff. Generally, anybody with
basic skills, who can read and write can, you know, look at what they need to do and figure it out. So the great thing
about it is redundancy of all functions, not just critical functions. But the other thing is consistency. And the ability to
shorten the amount of time, a new hire goes from costing you money while you're training them, getting them
oriented until they're actually up and productive and producing a workflow. And when you've been doing it for a little
while you have benchmarks. And again, I'll let Stacy comment on this one more time. But you have benchmarks
about how long something should take. And when you know how long something should take, and you marry that to
how much a person costs, then you know how much the process costs. And then when you start trying to figure out
your budgeting and your costs you you have some idea what it should be. And then if you you know, you may have a
range based on somebody's skill set or things that happen, like power outages and whatnot. But But ultimately, you
know, you can see those anomalies, and then realize, hey, something's going on here, because this process is costing
a lot more than it should or taking a lot longer than it should and we're not hitting our, our marks. So does all that
make sense. Stacy, you have anything you want to add to that?

Staci Gray 08:52

Our socks actually have our SOP templates have a time on them. So it says how long it should take you to do it.

Russ 09:03

So the person going in, you know, and the temptation when you're paying somebody by the hour of VA is for them to
lollygag, but you're holding them accountable to being productive, because you figured out how long it should take
and they have that target to hit. If they miss that target continually, then you have a discussion. Is it a training issue?
Do you not have the right software or equipment? You know, are you being pulled off task with emergencies? Are we
not managing your focus, you know, on and on. But without that it's just a free for all and you lose control? | know
because I've done it 1000 times. And that’s why this type of discipline this type of structure is is critically important.
And the great news in our business is our business is relatively simple, right? A lot of the complicated stuff we're
