JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

_)O

JO

40:38

know that's, that's it. It’s not but you but you have to you have to draw tool, you have to

pick it to a halt.

40:44

Okay. So. So if you're asked, What do you just say, hey, that the deal’s off the table now?

Or you wait a couple days? |

40:50

would say good. No, if you got into it, here it I'll give you a certain time, five days 10 to
whatever it is. If | don’t get if | don’t you don't get me to contract by that time, then all bets

are Off.

41:07

And you got to get him to believe it. Okay? Because what you've done now isn't believe it
right now. They say, look, we while | got you in the bag? So I'll let me see if | can get

somebody better.

41:20

Would you incentivize them with a like a non refundable, like deposit like 1000 bucks go

and hey, will, you know, take this make dinner people go? Well,

41:30

| don't think it's actually incentive to go there. It's, it's looking to see if they can get a
better deal. incentive is what will happen is if they get somebody that offers them a better
deal, they'll come back to you and say, match the New Deal. Yeah, | like that. Well, that's
what's going to happen. Yeah. But he could cut it off and say, Yeah, but I'm not sure. If you
don't get somebody that matches my deal. Then I'm going to read negotiate the price

down. So works both ways.

42:03
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

That's good. Yeah, | think we just need a little more backbone there to be able to
Blackboard

42:09

backbone. Yeah. And don't forget that. Okay. If you put it in writing. We don't have a
signed contract by such he says, and the way you're going to tailor it is in the letter going
forward, you say, we are interested in many other investments that are that are
comparable to yours. So if you don't we don't complete the investment on the yelloweye.
We're going to look elsewhere. and shoot that that lethal gun, something to think about?
Yeah. Okay.

42:40

That's good. That's what we need to do. That's my gut was telling me that, but | was one

make sure it wasn’t my my anger speaking.

42:47

No, not here. You can't get anger. Yeah. If the deal is to be made, there's going to be
made. If it's not, it’s not what not there, they have to decide that it's a good deal. You
have to decide. Certainly, if they can't get a better bitter, can you do entitled to some type

of reduction?

43:09

Well, | appreciate that. Thank you so much.

43:11

No, not a problem.

A313

What's next? All right, why don't we go to Sep in Southern California.
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

31:43

That's it? Yeah, part of it. Part of what | find so enjoyable is, is now giving back the benefit
of my experience. And everything that I've been involved in accomplished, over over my
career, call it a career, and people can have it for free. And if it makes their life better, fine.
If it doesn't, so be it they can take it or not. But it's just part of the teacher and me that
you'd like to share whatever whatever insight that you have into what goes on for life.
Why not? Why not? Absolutely. So |, | have gotten a doing a lot of coaching now. Besides,
as far as Victor is concerned, I'm involved with coaching people for all over the world. Did |
spend a half hour they spend it but they pay for it? Not? Not necessarily me | don't | get
paid. But not that is now I'm up to 39 people that pay for the coaching for half hour
throughout the world. And you said they want to just hear what you have to say well make
good give them advice. That's fine. Why not? Why Why should Why do you keep that that

experience to yourself? | agree. We're all

33:03

agree. Or you do agree Victor or what? Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely.

33:08

Ross was very quiet.

SontZ

You muted dress,

Russ 33:13

| was muted so that | wouldn't interrupt and accidentally take over the screen. | think it's
great. You know, I'm obviously taking advantage of it. And our people are taking

advantage of it. You're a national treasure and we're just a

33:26

national treasure.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

49:12

different there are a whole different ballgame. Okay. All right. And it just you know what
life is too short to go through that find another piece of property? Nothing but

aggravation.

49:23

Brings me peace. Yes, I've

49:24

been stewing over it for a couple of weeks. Nothing is still over. Okay, great. You can't
they're gonna tell you | don't do many times in the properties that | have been involved
with. Anytime we have some kind of a governmental authority that can tell you what you
do, be it the Corps of Engineers, or of the city planning commission or something like
that? Nothing but problems nonetheless, and nothing would probably you can't get an

answer

49:48

yet because it’s too many government departments that you're dealing with. Nobody

wants

49:51

to give you Yes. Yeah, okay, wait, no, you say yeah, but it makes sense. They don't care if it
makes sense. You can't You can't touch this. You can't touch the stream because there

were fishing deer that have to be put

50:05

together. | didn't even get into the species

50:10

of birds in my jumping house that doesn't have those restrictions.
JO

JO

Die)

JO

JO

JO

15:45

Do you think he will actually concede? No? Yeah, |

15:48

don't think so either. No, it’s not a start. Yeah. Yeah. You can't admit a loss. It's not, it’s not
a start.

15:58

And he doesn't want to go down in history as a loser. Now he could say it was starting to

16:01

make a difference. He's going down is what it is. He’s God. God is he's he's already been

as controversial as any one president could be.

16:09

Yeah. Yeah. And my daughter was coming home from school saying this friend is scared
her parents won't be there when they come back, because ice is gonna get them. | mean,
all this heavy.

16:21

That's, that's it? Well, my feeling is it’s a little patch. Yeah, one thing I'm very that | think
worked out with or will work out when ultimately Biden is approved, which you should be
is that you won't have the violence in the streets. You won't have the anti truckers out
there. To say, no one, which he has. Look what happened with the last election. What do
you what ended the how many people showed up that they wanted to drone out right
away or impeached or anything else? That's it right away started? So | don't think | don't
think you'll see the violence in the streets. But yeah, hopefully not. Hopefully not. So but
we'll see. It's a trying time. But | don’t want to find your you don't not own all Trump are
fine. I'm in a family of Donald Trump, who's not krumpers Oh, no, not Trump is that you

can't even talk to them.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

30:08

got it done, or | got because if you if you leave it up to them, leave it up to them to figure
out how to how to lose the money. They're not using telogen. You'll overpay where they
shouldn't overpay. And it’s just it gets caught up in the regulations wrong. As far as that's

me.

30:25

Yes, | agree. And it's about doing the work yourself. Like you said, Give money but actually,
when you actually are of service, it changes your vibration and makes you feel better
when | had people do that. And then we did coaching at night. | mean, their ideas, their
self love one so high up, because it's not all about free. What can | get? What can | take?
It's about what can | give and then what is there to support me to receive it's like a

completely different paradigm well, different mood

30:53

board and for three charities. On this on the board, they're all different charities with
different purposes, which are fine, all basically involved with Sick Kids, which that's, that's
your attention to | don't know, never had it. No family, fortunately. But | can't see anything
worse in my mind, than having a family with a young child that's got cancer. To me, that's,

that's the horror of horrors. And that's stroke, | can make their life easier. I'm all for.

ait

Yes. And to do it in the middle of your life, you don’t have to wait till you're 100 years old

and don't know I'm

ak33

pretty close. I'm close. By my life.

31:39

you're sharing with us, you're here giving back. It's amazing.
JO

JO

JO

JO

For me, it would be over 15 million.

22:30

Well, that you picked up. Yes. That is that was, you gotta find something against against
them. That was one of the things. Yes, he’s very strong at that point. So you could say,
well, he’s strong like Hitler. Did | helped in that Liberty? Sure. Yeah, he was a strong leader,
but that's what you needed at the time. Okay. I'm not saying stay, I'm not basically
standing against him or for him. | should base considering everything that the way the
stack, the deck was stacked against them with a full throated impeachment and trim to
begin with, with everything that they did. Under terrible circumstances. He did. | think, a
yeoman's job. He did. | agree. Right. And they, and whether or not how history caused it |

Time will tell. And it makes any difference in his mind, it does.

23:34

I'm going to suggest, I'm gonna suggest a little bit of a detour to another topic that |
know, I'll have in common. Both | know, Lisa, you've been involved in philanthropy on so
many different levels, both actively monetarily, many different ways. And as have you,
George, yes. Why don't we start with maybe outlining a little bit of some of your
philosophy on philanthropy, because | know you have a very particular point of view that,
personally, | found very valuable, it changed the way that | approach it. And maybe we

can take it from there.

24:11

But you want me to do it? Okay, Martin, | think at this point, that everybody has to figure
out in their own mind, what their lifestyle is, what they want it to be. And you want the
lifestyle to be whatever it costs you to get there. Fine. That's that's personal. On the other
hand, if you have more money, then you need to live that lifestyle. Why not give it to
charitable services that need it could use whatever it may be, if it's a hospital or xo village
children sick or an orphanage or they want to work, whatever it is, you don't need it. Give
it there is such The feeling that you get from that you're so far superior to what else you do
with it. You feel so much better. Yeah, | made the world a little better place because | gave

him some of my money that | didn't need.

25:13
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

That's Hmm, I'm not paying. I'm not paying do your best. Good | go on to because it takes
them they have to get lawyers they have to go as what and then you're a pain in the ass

they want to get rid of usually they'll probably do something.

57:03

That's the play. Yeah.

57:05

That's it. Don't be a coward. Boy, | would love to have you on the other side.

57:16

Negotiating would be | take you over the coals you wouldn't know what hit you. | can tell
from the atmosphere that you're absolutely a pushover. Okay, so much. You know what

we're gonna do it. What's next? Anything else? | think we're time is up. Aren't we

key pac ro

pretty close? Let me welcome Robert Helms in to say hello,

Robert 57:39
Robert. Where? Oh, sir. Great to see you as always. And here's Robert. This is Robert. All as

well, we're,

57:49

how come? | don't understand that.

Robert 57:54

Hey, awesome to have Lisa pop in who she's just so incredible. just fell in love with her
when Kyle Wilson introduced me in the inner circle. And, you know, | think the great thing
today for me is the takeaway is George the first time we met, we talked about how much
philanthropy is on your heart and absolutely your ideas. Love that. Lisa, you've lived that

out. It’s not just here's philanthropy isn't go get rich for a lot of years, and then give it
JO

JO

JO

JO

43:24

Hey, George, hey, Victor. How are you guys? What's up? Hey, so I'm dealing with a
situation | have a duplex in Jacksonville, and it’s a hybrid, it’s got an apartment upstairs.
And there's an office unit downstairs. The apartment is very easy to lease. But the the
office we're struggling the office unit, it looks almost like a residential unit. There's a
shower, there's a bath. And the contractor that was living in there was he had a
commercial lease, but he was basically living in their property managers recommending
we convert it to a full residential duplex instead of a mixed use and just want to see if
you're in my shoes, what would you do? Because that's what | have. Okay, are there any
that Well, okay, let me back up a little bit the cost to convert it. It makes the deal less

attractive if we keep it as is if we can find

44:19

it. Yeah, but | think first of all, website, it’s worth it. To convert it because it's residential, it
has greater value in the long run. Even though it’s gonna cost you something to turn it
from where it is your office into residential. Alright, but as part of your expenses party
you're operating in this show that if you sell it or you lease it, you can take deductions for
what you're the improvements that you made, but it's better than to have a mixed unit.
And | think if | had to go mixed unit if | had had the choice of taking residential and
making commercial today or making taking commercial make a residential We'll go take
it commercial and make it residential. | think it works better as a residential property,

especially its ground floor. So whatever. Like, that's what | would do.

45:15

One follow up question on that. Is COVID influencing your decision? Like, are you? are you

basing that based on today's environment? Or Oh, would you still? No, okay.

A5:27

No, | am basing it based on the theory, | don't that, in my experience has been mixed use
operations don't work as well as fixed years. When | say if it's commercial, commercial, if
it's if it's residential, residential, part commercial part residential works, maybe in some
office buildings, but not necessarily in housing, residential spread, especially at that point
where you have professional offices that don't work anymore. And | think what | would
take into account is the what has come out of COVID is what we're doing now we're doing

it virtually. | don't need office space, you don't need the office space, we can do it virtually.
JO

JO

JO

JO

Amen to that. So

25:16

| would pick pick whatever charity you want to whatever group it is, and that will give
back. Not only that, why don't you give you time? If you haven't got the money, why not
the time? What are the gripes main gripe is not a serious gripe | have, especially with
people that were friends for a successful business people, and now they're on yours. So
they're in their 80s. So why go to a hospital, mentor, some kid coming out of a ghetto
area, give them the benefit of your experience, do something constructive, and give back
the experience that you had in your lifetime? Even though it may not be money if it’s
money, money, but why not give them the benefit of the experience? And | find that a

tremendous waste of talent.

26212

| agree. | think as a therapist, | used to take people to orphanages in like different
countries, Kenya, Tanzania, coastal, Bali, Prague, all these different places, Egypt, but |
would have them be of service, | wouldn't charge them because | heard all these
companies that you could volunteer and go travel. It's like 5000 or 7000 for a week, you
know, free, but you have to bring a suitcase full of supplies from where you live like | live in

Hollywood, with T shirts or pencils, medicine shirt. Hey, boys.

26:47

When you get the foreign coffees, | would live leave when we left. Leave everything that |
didn't need. Yes. And | had a total that wasn't sold. This was voluntary. Yes. So jack, but
one thing is and you gotta you don't because you've done a lot of traveling as | as
basically as | have learned one thing is no place left the USA, yes, with everything is you
got to there is no place like and you look at what's going on in some of the other
countries, you say? How do they How do they live like this? How can they live in such
poverty where they don't have water with it or drinking water? They're all these facilities?
And we don't have enough people in the world that we're willing to give to support that?

Yes. They're willing to give back? Yes. Yeah. But that's that is part of philanthropy.

27:41

So George, one of the things that you taught me early on, | don't know this probably
JO

ears perked up at that, because now kind of getting into what we're all here to do is look

for where the flow of opportunity is, if you

08:13

will, | think Biden will do it, | think he'd do it because he has to, when | say he has to, there
is so much been pushed, that that was a good thing to do, that he’s not going to reject it.
without losing votes, without losing part of the plurality, which he has witchy investors is
pretty thin. It's a lot of votes, but it's pretty thin, the margin precision. And | think the
democrats are smart enough to see that. So | think that they’re going to say basically
good, leave that alone, call them something else call it the vine opportunity zones. So we'll

give it anew name. But the concept will be the same. Because it makes sense.

© Russ 09:01

JO

Yeah. And so that, you know, | think for all of us sitting here that that sounds like pretty
good news. | had another question, Victor that | had pre submitted, but this has more to
do with the virus. And and you know, in terms of just negotiating contracts, as some of the
contracts we do on our event business, they've added exclusions now where either party
can get out of it in case the government does another shutdown. And that makes it easier
for us to enter into the contract from your perspective, based on what you've seen. For
those of us that are out there syndicating doing deals, should we be modifying our
contracts in some way if you know, force majeure or something having to do with the virus

you? Are you seeing any of that right now? Is that something we should be thinking about?

09:43

You've been effectively speaking to me.

© Russ 09:46

JO

| was speaking to you, you're the you're the lawyer. You're the expert.

09:49

Yes. The Well, certainly the COVID concept has affected the insurance industry
tremendously. Is is now a company Word is covered business interruption. Words, it

doesn't fall into any of the the exclusions, and it doesn't really fall into all the inclusions. So
JO

away. It's what you do right during the time. So love the hardball questions. That's great
stuff. But you know, when this was not a zoom call, | would just always be on the call as a

lawyer. But now | guess | can hide. So thanks, Victor. Thanks, everybody.

58:35

Little girlie seeing you be well. | like your programming and you're doing great. Really.
There's plenty of opportunities now as a result of COVID.

© Robert 58:45

JO

We think you're right about that. Yeah, plenty

58:46

plenty opportunities now. Because what happens is you're going to get we're going to lose
the people that are nervous. They're not happy you'd like to deal with people's nervous
because that’s the time you can get to good bonds. Yeah. Yeah, creates an opportunity
and real estate will still be there. | love that about real estate. Right? That just doesn't go

anywhere.

© Robert 59:10

JO

Yeah. Thanks, George. Thanks so much, Nick. Yeah, good seeing you be well, good to see

you brother.

a9: 15

Okay. | know
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

And | think this is that would detract from the value of that commercial portion of the
building. Okay, okay. And therefore it but it wouldn't detract from the residential portion
because people need a place to live. But you don't need to space to work as an office.
that would that would what | would figure into my calculations of using it. | think it'll
always work. It'll always work residential, but it won't always work commercial. Even if you
get more or you save money. Don't figure on saving money to short range. Long Range if
you improve your increasing the value of the property. If you keep it your rented or you

sell it, whatever it is. Long Range. It’s a big plus.

47:05

interest with a camera again. We lost your camera again.

47:09

| lose my camera. When | hit. There we go. We've got you now. Yes. Okay, | hit the wrong

button. Okay, what's next?

47:21

Next? Let's go to Paul, Paul. George. So

47:25

we got a we got a unique situation we we had a property under contract, and we were
about to close. And it was an industrial site that we were going to develop into a storage
yard. During our due diligence period, we noticed that they had a lot of environmentally
protected wetlands surrounding it has an unmarked wetlands and had some power
through it. So we talked to the Conservation Authority and their umbrella had authority
over our property. And they said, if we wanted to do anything, we would have to go to site
plan control, which is a one year process, and it's very expensive. We spoke to city
planners in the area that was outside of the Conservation Authority. The city planner said
Well, no, that's subject to site plan control, because 20 acres in that direction. It’s
environmentally protected. But though, so we had the local engineering firm also tell us

that it was a complicated property.

48:17
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

tremendous amount of anti Trump sentiment, and I'm not saying they're wrong. You got to
anti Trump sentiment. So if he’s for or against, it doesn't make a difference whether it's
good for the country or not. What are the particular state that's involved with real estate?

No. David, it's it’s not it’s purely personal. Wow. Well, thank you, George. Okay, so Wow.

12:30

Cindy? Yes, indeed. Well, it's a What a crazy time, do you? Do you see any? Do you see any
parallel for us as real estate investors as we go through the transition for this to this new

government?

12:46

What do we what do you mean peril?

12:49

Changing regulations changing tax laws changing?

12:52

No, no, let's put this way. The answer is possibly but very far on the horizon. You got too
much else going on? You got to solve the after effects of, of COVID and the closings of the
lockdowns and the effect that that’s had on the economy and the people and you can't
hit him with something that's going to be negative you can if the if the economy starts to
come back and things start to look better, then you may be able to do it. But | | look at
very, very little part of what the The party was said they were going to do. It's going to get
passed quickly. Okay.

13:38

Okay. That makes sense. Makes sense? It's not it's not in the top 10 list.

13:44

No, and certainly it this way. If you find out if they if they the Republicans control the
house. Republicans control the Senate. It's a whole different ballgame. Tell me.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

| can make it very simple.

48:18

Yeah, walk. Yeah. So we did, we walked away. We had three sources of information that
told us uh, you know, this is going to be a hairy property that was going to cost a lot of

money, even though we were only going to put fencing in

48:31

what do you what do you what do you what are we talking about? Well,

48:35

two weeks later, someone else moves in? Which again,

48:39

| have the aggravation.

48:40

Okay, that's nothing but aggravation. Yeah, yep. | guess, | guess the thing that that we're

looking at is, how do we analyze that someone sees something we didn't

48:53

know or nobody? Who has whoever saw it? At that point? The answer is yes. Like you think
you can work with the Conservation Authority. Koi, you can work with a Vanessa Polly
that's the feeling until you get there. Yeah, you do it and you're dealing now especially

when it comes to conservation.

49:11

Dealing with multiple,
Die)

JO

Russ 05:54

Well, yeah, so George is so good to see you. | just sorry that I've not on these calls more
often. One of my questions was kind of what your perspective was, in your long life. Had
you ever seen anything like this, but | think you've kind of conveyed that with your attitude

that this too shall pass. There’s, you know,

06:12

no, | never saw anything like it. Am | surprised? No, I'm not surprised. Because, you know,
Trump is gonna never say, You beat me, | lost. He's not a not a good loser. He's a bad
loser. He hates to lose. And he can admit that he lost. He can’t admit that he did
something wrong. It's just not he’s not his background. That's not a star. A lot of people
like it, because he doesn't give up. But my feeling is alive in a large support, there comes a
time you have to grow up and get out of the way.

Russ 06:46
Well, the comment that the thing that | put out today was, you know, just with the

uncertainty in the air, trying to figure out how to move forward, | always just focus on what
are the most likely outcomes no matter which way the thing swings, and | felt like, okay,
there's gonna be a lot more stimulus. And then it looked like

07:05

there's no question. A lot of the things which Trump did were very beneficial. And the only
reason that the democrats didn't go along with it is because he did it. an anti Trump, they
wouldn't do it. But there were a lot of things, the opportunity zones, he made tremendous
headway in the black and Latino community. And the if you follow what the Democrats,
they're, they're aware of that and they're against shaker shake, and pretty much saying,
Hey, wait a minute. If we want to control, we're going to have to change our perspective
on a number of things. Even though they came, Trump did it. Now, they may give a
different name or other things, but certainly, there's a lot of incentive, a lot of money's got
to go into all different communities and cities and what | do to straighten out certain
things, which for years, | have been festering.

Russ 07:58

Yeah, the article that | was referring to as an accounting today article that just talked

about how Biden may go ahead and continue the opportunity's own program. And my
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

55:10

they can only go off of the asset. They can’t come up to me personally.

20:13

| don’t know, it depends on what your papers are you personally on the asset or lease or

whatever it is? | don't know.

90:19

So yeah, so | have a lawyer. Yeah, but the lawyers are gonna just rake me over the coals
by the time like they're going to be the winners out of this. They're going to charge me
1020 grand just to take this to the litigation.

55:30

No, Bill, you're asking a simple question. Can | go ask him? am | responsible personally?

90:30

Yeah, so I'm not responsible personally.

55°37

So then that | still find so they're not responsible personally. So you can take a risk of

losing the unit?

95:44

| am taking on that risk. | think the current ob costs me, why don't

30:49

we? Why are we talking? Why are we talking about you? You've already made a decision
to pay off the bank and you made the decision to lose the unit and let the condo taken

over.
_)O

JO

JO

JO

into the in the business plan. But we have a sign executed Li on our space that is ideal for
our, our business. The owners of the property have done the Hey, no one else is here where
you guys are in line. And it’s been 14 days and we have not got the lease back from the
the owners come to find out. They have been showing this to other people, even though
we have assigned Li delaying us for a couple of weeks. And obviously, time is of the
essence when it comes to businesses such are especially in in this time of year in the
holidays. So | guess my question is, | mean, how do you how do you hold the feet to the
fire these people that were assigned LSI excuted? Both sides? And then also how do you if
we do end up actually getting the lease back or these other people? You know, go away?
How do we get something in return for this delayed you know, time delay because they

cost us several $1,000?

39:17

The key league answer is you you have you have to put in a timeframe. And a timeframe.
You say Look, my offer doesn't last forever are offered last if | don't get a signed contract

by five days, 10 days, whatever it is at that point my deal is off is off the table.

39:36

He was they signed it so they've accepted it

39:38

off the table. So it's a no lie. Yeah, this this happens this when | put it into big and it wasn't
taken. Right. Pretty good. Now, what's one buy and sell and quality says I'll take your bid. |
said what bid? He says you bid. | just that was before. | know it was is the highest bidder.
Now | know how the highest bidder, we were, let’s talk again new terms. So same way you
can talk returns, even though you gotta know why if you're if they have to delay, it's
unconscionable. Okay? So you say you have to tell them Look, do what you want. But I'm

not going to be here forever. If you don't finish it now, at a time, let's talk again.

40:28

So strategy wise there, you you know, obviously, we had this need it’s time time press, but

we also want to show our hands that we're desperate, we cannot we cannot
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

56:00

The point I'm trying to do is I'm trying to negotiate with the board to reduce the fees on
the unit.

56:06

| understand at this point and why should they listen to you? Because I'm not going to pay

them later. That's not what you just told me. I'm going to they're going

56:15

to try to take it to power of sale. That's what they're likely but that’s the play they're going
to take

56:19

two and a half days for you to play hardball with the with the condo board play hardball
with them.

56:24

That's the play. Right?

56:25

That's fine to play hardball with. Nothing wrong with that cannot take me to court. That's
cool. Do that. Take me to court. I'm not paying you your charges to lie whatever you want.
| want to reduce the charge which you're not likely to do. Maybe they'll give you more time

to pay. But you play hardball. I'm not paying.

56:45

That's the one.

56:47
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

On what my perspective of what perspective is sort of how he’s, he lost the election, he's
going to have to recognize it and get over that day, it's not going to happen. You can
make a lot of flash and you can claim fraud. And it probably is, but not enough to
overturn the election. But there’s so many so much else going on in the world to come to
the time to just back off and let the let things go. That's my feeling. And | think he will not

do that voluntarily. But we'll have no alternative.

01:24

I've heard you say from time to time, about how Donald negotiates I've heard you say
things like he can take something that's black and white and turn it into a very light shade

of gray.

01:35

Yeah, yeah. But not this is this is beyond them. This is this is different than you know, it's
it's hard. | mean, let's face it got 73 million votes. Yeah. 73 million. That's more than
anybody else ever had not outside of Biden. Now, it was a contested election. Yes. But |
think there comes a time when somebody has to say, what's the Bennett what's best for
the country rather than what's best for me? And you have to say, in the good of the
country, I'll do it. That's not his style. Right. Which is, which is that's what got him elected.
And that's probably what why he lost.

02:20

Do you think he Do you think he's using this to gain some form of negotiating leverage for

something

02:27

negotiating leverage you quit, | watched in the back of my mind is a possible third party. In
the future. Yeah, that's in my mind for you guys. 73 million votes is a lot of votes. So that
that may be if you've if you've set up a third party, or you'll be at least a factor to be taken

into account in future elections.

02:58

Third, parties don't have an average of being effective. | mean, | think Dr. Ross Perot,
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

53°35

That's actually a very good point.

93:38

Yeah, won't last forever. But a great now to tell you find don't pay.

53:46

So this time last year, might not have had as much negotiating leverage.

53:50

Absolutely not different ballgame. But still the concept is the same but you don't have the
same leverage. Here you know you complete poverty and it's always gonna listen to you.
The bank will listen to you the Comic Con Co Op board may listen to you or certainly the
judges will listen to you so take advantage of it. Does that answer your question? Where
do you go?

54:26

See or you've got to have the fortitude to to negotiate it that way. Right.

54:33

Absolutely. Absolutely. So the so this was so the strategy that | like so | made the decision.
So what I'm doing is I'm going to discharge the debt. I'm gonna pay the bank, | get it. I'm
being a coward. I'm sorry. I'm going to pay the bank. Okay, | take my I've made I've made
the call. Okay. So the best way to call but then condo for example. Now the condo they

come after me personally. Right. So what are the fees are?

55:04

| don't know. | don't know what your arrangement is with the condo, | don't know what you

want it once you sign,
JO

JO

Die)

JO

JO

JO

17:21

Yeah, | have friends like that. Yeah. Did you can?

17:24

Yeah, no, I've talked to so let’s say, Can you give me one thing that Trump did? It was

good. And the answer is no. They don't want to admit it.

17:34

Mm hmm. People | was on this call with you today. And they said, How could you do that?
| mean, you got to understand the other side, every site is important. Even if you don't

agree that know what's in people's heads and

17:47

clicking never been there's never been such animosity for opinions. If you're not following
me, You're a terrible person.

17

Yeah, | guess the opinion is | travel all over the world. I've worked in orphanages for five
years, like full time and 15 different countries. I've met a lot of people I'm in a very diverse
community. And | hold a lot of real estate and houses and my husband co created a
couple of hit TV shows and I've done speaking all over and you know, everyone's going
What about all your real estate? You know, the Trump hours are saying you have real
estate holdings if Biden wins it’s going to turn socialists and it’s your thing. And your

corporate crap

18:29

happened at this point? Because | think that the what what has come out of this is that
the general public until the average what America the middle America, quote, what you
like, is not socialist, and they're not going to agree to socialism. Right, go along with the
with the hard left. Now may have lost but they go a lot of things. They say, okay, we can
go along with it. So | think you're gonna end up with some kind of a middle road, which is

fine. Yeah. The politicians to do things that should be done.
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

51:19

are you going to put us? Why are you paying the bank?

51:24

So | made the bank, | made the decision to pay the bank.

51:29

Okay, she made the decision during two but why | mean, forget it, got to fight fight the
whole thing. If | can throw you out, willy nilly. The more the more smoke did you put up
into the air, the easier it is to solve the problem get everybody in your corner, the bank and
and the condo and a little bit, say follows We can solve the problem. But we all have to do
it the same way. Everybody wants to solve the problem, but they've got different rules, |

would have paid the bank. You can always pay the bank. Shorter foreclosure.

52:09

So you're saying George, that by not paying the bank, you have the opportunity to make
the bank your ally, in this fight against the condo board,

52:19

you're gonna want to solve the problem. So you now have to be we've got the condo
board and you got the bank. Now look at this. If you don't pay the bank, the condo
waterboard is going to be unhappy. Even if you don't pay the condo board. Definitely the
bank may be unhappy. Good, let him both be unhappy the same part, let's solve the
problem. We got one problem with this, we've got three people, three entities involved.
Don't make your life any easier, long time to go. The average foreclosure, this takes a long
period of time and in this atmosphere, it's not gonna work. Of course, you're not going to
be going to be very, very reluctant to affect to have somebody thrown out of the unit as a
result of failure to pay because of COVID. They're going to they're going to do
handsprings to give you more time or say Can't we work it out. So it's a good time that
you're going to be arguing with the bank. Are you going to argue something else because

the banks are not going to win in this atmosphere?
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

19:04

Right. But how do you deal with the fake news? Like | talked to some friends saying, Let's
have a dialogue about this, because this is so divisive with so many families and I'm a
therapist to

19:13

devices, but the devices understand what is made created the division is listen to Fox
News and listen to CNN. And they're, they're miles apart. Yes. miles apart. Yes. | mean,
had rallies which they didn’t even attend. Yeah. They didn't even send somebody didn't
want to hear what he said. So and the other engines is Norman doom and gloom and
everything else at this point. And what he's good, he's gonna run replica. It's it. | wonder

what they're going to be talking about after the election is over what's nice.

19:49

Oh, it’s gonna be pretty boring

19:57

or plus Ready?

20:01

What do you got ahead? How do you feel about like my democrat friends say if you're
friends with a republican or give Trump any kudos, that means you're a racist your file
your you support?

20:15

Oh, no, that's what you would do. What they're doing is they're just spouting what they're
hearing in the media.

20:23

Like, oh, you're gonna erase us and | put
Olles

George Ross November 2020

ge lue,9/1412:01PM @ 59:21

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, biden, george, deal, trump, contract, property, question, lost, hear, money, lawyer, agree,

condo, business, election, residential, years, point, charity

SPEAKERS

Russ, Robert

JO

JO

JO

JO

00:00

We've got a great turnout this evening. Welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly
mastermind with George Ross. And for those of you who don't know, George, most of you
do, George needs no introduction. He's been in business for over 60 years. He's been
teaching at the law school at NYU for over 20 years. He's the best selling author of two
books on real estate negotiation. He's best known for his role as Mr. Trump's right hand

man for the better part of 47 years. And so welcome, everyone. Welcome, George.

00:32
Good. Good to be here.

00:35

We got some great questions tonight. And my goodness, we could never have | know we
sound a little bit like a broken record, we could never have scripted 2020 and let alone the
last couple of weeks. What's your perspective?

00:49
JO

JO

JO

JO

seven, eight years ago, was that when you make an investment in in a charity, and | think
you use the word investment, you want to see that return on investment out the other side.
So for example, think I'm almost quoting you verbatim, you said | would never give to the
United Way, because it’s too opaque. | can't see that connection between donation and
the benefit.

28:12

Right. That's the benefit. Oh, I've always insisted on this is part of my particular chart, |
would never give money to the charity itself, but for a specific purpose. So the money
would be earmarked for a piece of equipment, an operating room or something that |
could point to not general research, not something that | don't see the results. | Oh, |
object to the one of the the charities | object to is the American Red Cross. The head of
American record cost gets $800,000 a year the head of Salvation Army gets $36,000 a
year. What do you do with the 100,000 American Red Cross that you got to take that as a
salary? So | say to me, it’s wrong. You got to get a bang for your buck, how better to get a
bang for your buck than to tell them what they got to do what they can do with the
money or what they can't do with the money. And that’s that’s it. That's my feeling on it. |
want to know where the money is going. Not generally. But that's me. And my charity, so

we want to see something specific.

29:35

Yes, that's true. | did the same thing was donating to charities and then | saw someone
said look how much they're making. So that's when | decided I'll take people on my own |
won't charge and we give it directly housebreak we use local contractors, local

construction people regulars and we pay them when we see it done then

29:54

that's it then you got na e now what you have is the fee you get the feeling of having done
Because you're seeing through to the end, yes. Doesn't get lost in the administrative
correct morass.

30:07

Yeah, yeah, it's
there's going to have to be you have to handle that. So that's part of that is the insurance
part of it is liability. Part of it is, is what what are certain businesses going to do? Or can
you reject the liabilities that you have under certain contracts? Because a COVID, that's
wide open, wide open, as was my personal feeling on it. And again, it’s just it’s just my
personal feeling is that wherever the code, the courts are going to lean very heavily on not

hurting anybody that was was hurt by code.

© Russ. 10:52

JO

acts have gotten

10:53

out of their houses, this is the bill that you'll have to be somebody to put somebody No.
But also there ought to be some stimulus that comes from Congress to help these people
to help them. Do it, which you don't see by because they're totally partisan. Why they
can't agree, | don't, it's pure stupidity to me. Between the two of them, they can't say it

saying it will protect the party. But what about the country?

© Russ 11:22

JO

Do you see that opening up after the election?

11:24

What about all the businesses being closed? What I'm going out with the small mom and
pop businesses, you need to pull push? they all agreed that they ought to get a push, but
they all agree on how much info Why

© Russ 11:40

_)O

do you think that'll open up after the election once this thing is settled? And

11:43

yeah, yes, | think it'll open up after the election. | think it | think it makes a big difference.
Because they can't do it now without making Trump look good. That's it, if you could, if

you could do it with me look bad. They do it in a minute. Because what you have is
JO

JO

JO

JO

Die)

JO

20:27

this way they go tell you from personal experience. And is | forget, I've been involved with
Donald for 47 years forgot to 47 years this boy, but for 16 years, | was as close to him as
anybody. in baseball, | had a personal relationship, which was one of mutual respect. All
right, it was not | was not on his payroll. | was a confidential advisor for which | got paid.
But | told him as | saw it, not as he would like to hear it in there 16 years. There was not
anything in any way shape or form, which | would control as being racist. One thing is that
| can tell you this, the man is the consummate patriot. He loves the country. Okay, not
show it that way loves the country. And that's what that's that’s a bubble. Never racist.

Never have any additional dissent

21:28

on artists or criminal. Yeah, not a criminal.

21:31

There's a difference. Okay, tell me, there's a difference. con artists, everybody in real
estate is a con artist in one way or another. All right, because you always say the
property's worth more property's worth less. It's got the problem, is it this is kind of
everything in it. Yeah, the roof is rolling or everybody that's hyperbola. The ally? sure
everybody lives as he is, you know, there's a big difference between doing something
illegal and then pushing pushing. What what what, if somebody asked you at this point, if
someone asked you a question that you would be against the answer, would you're going
to give me a true answer. Somebody says, are you doing? Are you Do you consider

yourself to be an extremely wealthy person? What do you guys say yes or no?

22:19

No, I'm not What?

22:23

What's the answer of being extremely wealthy?

22:28
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

13:59

Yeah, | understood. We got off today. We've got we have a new guest on the line here

today. We've got Lisa haish on the line lease. Are you there?

14:13

lam.

14:14

Here we are. Hi. How are you? Good. Finally got you in person.

14:24

Yeah, yeah. Um, | it's so nice to meet you. And, you know, | really respect you. | saw you on

the apprentice and really enjoyed you. Yeah, | am not a Trump supporter.

14:38

But good. Yeah, yo, no problem. Yes. |

14:42

enjoyed hearing what you had to say. Because | like a lot of his policies, and like what you

were saying if he was anyone else, | would have voted for him.

14:52

You know, this is this. It's true. You know what when | look at it, and basically say to me, it’s
amazing. What he accomplished? in the environment? Yes, from they were seeking to
impeach him from day one. They think he stole the election. He was called an imposter.
With all of that. He got a lot of things accomplished. That were good. Yeah, that's it. That's
amazing. You also made a lot of enemies, which we knew he was going to make. Yes. So |
think the transition will be very good. | hope | would like, like, basically for for him to say,
yes, you won. There's a lot of questions are how you one, but for the benefit of the country,

| will back off. Yes. Are you one? | would like to see that.
JO

JO

JO

JO

03:03

No, they don't. But meanwhile, what's the what's the best? What's the gray? Let's face
would you ever have an election like we had? No, no, never had it. You know, that's a
situation never have a situation where you have marchers in the streets on both sides. It’s
weird. And then coupled with liquid COVID. As a as a faculty, it’s just crazy time. But this

too, shall pass.

03:33

Yeah, clearly, clearly. What are your what's your perspective? There’s been a lot of
discussion about Biden repealing some of the tax laws. We touched on this a couple of

months ago as well. What do you

03:47

know, the big question that comes up is whether or not the republicans maintain control
of the of the Senate. That's the key if they maintain control of the Senate. He hasn't got a
prayer of passing those things. And they have to be good because let them control it. The
Democrats control the house and the Republicans control the Senate. And it doesn't make
a difference who the President is. Is that the Senate is that would be the controlling factor.
That's the key. If if the day you don't if the republicans don't control the Senate, | still don't
think that what Biden has come up is going to work is going to do it. The way | say it’s not
going to work, you got 93 million or 73 million people, whatever that voted against this,
what he had in mind. You're not going to ignore that. You can't ignore it. And one of the
things that you have is you have two years you're going to have another election for
covering the house. They lost a lot of seats. has lost a lot of seats. And now you get what's
what's going to happen if he drives the new deed, new deal and all of the other things are
gonna lose a lot more seats. It’s not popular. So | don't think you're going to find Biden's
subscribing to the the hard left philosophy. | only maybe he'll go up against it. But | don't
think he'll fall he'll push that hard for it. But then again, they may push them around, it

seems to be seen. It's just a weird, weird time riddled with a set of political circumstances.

05:39

Russell gray, you were you put out a post today talking about what's happening with
opportunity zones, potentially some support from key democrats on opportunity zones?
Why don't we dig into that aspect?
JO

JO

JO

JO

and all of the terms what we couldn't agree on a contract. So | said to the other side to
the other lawyer and the other side, good, how about if | show up with a check for three
and a half million dollars, and you give me the deed? no contract. You know what, let's do
it. | flew down with the check, got the deed | was the guy, the title, report everything |
needed. But we didn't have to go through the lawyers. And didn't have to go through to
say, Fine, that's what you want to do. The Li is of no value except as a guide to what you're
going to put in the final contract. But you can argue more about the yellow line. This is

early in the contract. So | don't have a problem go right to contract.

35:57

Nothing wrong with Hello, hi is only to the benefit of the person who drafted

36:04

because they know what they put in and what they left out. The person who gets it’s got

to figure out what was left out?

36:11

Well, exactly. So the draft of the contract that we received was produced by the seller. And
right now at the moment, he’s refusing to use the real estate board contract or five

template

36:20

for something else. Okay, fine. You can come out He wants you to use his own title
company picks out who cares, you can get all that information and you can get insured, it
was a special warranty deed instead of a full compensate. So why not cover it, there are
ways around it, which you can cover and title insurance. And you can get what you need
in a way of protections. You can check the violations against the property. There's also if
you're not worried about violations there, they check the fire department, whatever. There
are ways around it, if you will at the property. And | can understand the reluctance of

some sellers, because they say it’s too complex. | want to sell the property. | don't want to
go through all this. Make out all the affidavits make out all of this. | can understand you
can work around it if you want to property. Why not? If both parties want to make the

deal, they can make it the lawyer should not hold them apart.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

50:15

Okay, and what about the guy that moved in there and is plowing in the wetlands rain
author attached? Fine. Send him a bottle of Vesper? Yeah. Okay. Just Just

50:26

like that. At this point, | say with your with your compliments, he'll need it.

50:30

Alright, just let him do his thing and it'll catch up to him.

50:34

It's there. It's already there. Yep.

50:37

Alrighty. Well, thank you, George. Welcome.

50:43

Yeah, let's, uh, let's go to see ya. See, are you there? Yes, sir. George, how are you?

50:55

I'm fine. How are you doing?

50:57

Good. | took your advice about not paying. Yep. So so here's where I'm at with it. To be
totally Frank, I'm gonna pay the bank because they're gonna come after me. But I’m not
going to pay the condo. Now the Condi Kondo is gonna lean in, they're likely going to

power of sale the asset now what
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

37:21

That makes sense been overthinking?

ayi23

Yeah. That's what lawyers do. But they get paid for it. | never objected to lawyers making

a lot of money.

B76

Yeah, | love it. Oh, we lost your camera. George.

37:39

Did you hear | am you got me now? No, no. You got me now. What's next?

37:49

Okay, let's go to Billy in Nashville. Oh, either. Hey, Billy, |

37:56

see me up.

37:58

You're still muted.

Russ 37:59

You have done mute

38:01

yet? guys hear me now? Yes. Speaking of ello eyes, so this is a fun one. And we had a

conversation last month about the golf sanctuary. Thank you for that we're putting that
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

Russ 33:28

My grandfather retired at day one and kind of withdrew from society. | always wondered
why don't why aren't you active? You know so much. You could teach so many people. He
was very, very successful. Yeah. So | love it. And | think it keeps you young. My it

33:41

does. No, I'm a firm believer of First of all, that | believe. If you have your health,
everything else is second best. That's number one. But | was worth believe it that if you
keep your mind active, it will help you keep your body active. I'm a firm believer in toe. so

far. It's worked. It’s worked for me, but we'll see what happens.

Russ 34:08

| think you're a good role model George.

34:14

All right. Well, we have a handful more questions from from the group. See also Robert
Helms here in the house. So would you say hi, Robert, and then we'll jump into the

questions. Okay, good.

34:25

Let's jump into questions. Got another 25 minutes.

34:29

Okay. So, George, we've got, we've got a situation right now where we've got a 13 and a
half acre property. We spent a month negotiating the Li with a seller and the seller, we
agreed on all the terms We're then going to move to contract and the seller says | don't
sign the ello eyes. | just go straight contract.

34:53

So go to contract. Okay. What's the matter with that? Go to contract. | had a situation

different for clients. What | was different. We couldn't. We couldn't we agreed on the price
