JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

52:34

It's a specialty. Yeah. But that’s not that's not difficult. Okay. It's a franchise. Most
franchise agreements are not identical, but they're similar in what they contain. And you
get it you but you got to get into the physical details of what it is. So for example, if you
have a when we're talking chock full of nuts, they had a meet a menu, they had to have
certain employees and the employees had to be wearing certain types of outfits and they
had to be opened during certain knowledge and chose to do is restriction in order to get
in order to be the be a franchisee and they had to have the venue's posted, and you had
to have the chocolate and nuts, logo around and your store, how to look like something
from the inside outside and your signage. All of that was was covered in a franchise
agreement. But it’s basically the franchise agreement by itself is it is not a difficult
agreement. One but it is when you want to put in all of the details on the bells and
whistles you want so that the franchisee has protection but the franchisor also knows that
he's not going to be lambasted in in one one area because of a bad franchise in another
area. Right or uniformity is important. Yeah, that makes total sense. Yep. Fantastic. Well,
George, |

54:00

haven't heard that name chock full of nuts in a long time. That was my dad's favorite
coffee when he lived in him.

54:06

What was interesting, when you got chocolate, this is one of the things all right did | did
was when you were chock full of nuts. | came out okay, like that came out. | approved or
suggested advertising. They are the third largest producer of coffee in the United States.
Okay, yeah. Does that sound great? Absolutely. Except they had 4% of the market. Folger
and General Foods had degression had the other 96%.

54:40

Yeah, neglect the fact that us doesn’t produce any coffee and you can still be

54:43

third. That's correct. But that's Yeah. But meanwhile, | look at Hey, they must be bigger.
The third largest producer. Yeah. But that's just good. Good advertising. Yes, | love it.
JO

JO

JO

JO

54:56

Okay, one last question here. This is one that we're working on. We are in negotiation with
a restaurant that's being operated by someone who's again, one of these tired operators
close to 40 years, the tenant for the restaurant has five years remaining on the lease with
two five year options to renew. Now we know they're not going to exercise those options.
But the seller of the property is asking for a high price to buy out the remainder. What do
you mean the seller of the property? So the restaurant is in in the building and the we're

trying to buy the building?

5o.51

Okay, what you buy the building, but you don't want to lease?

D030

We don't want to lease because we want to demolish and put up. Okay, put up a big
building. So, yeah, so the restaurant ORS saying, Well, now you got to buy out the
remaining 15 years on the lease, even though we know that's nonsense, because he's
ready to hand over the keys now. So | guess question is, how can if you were negotiating
this, how would you be on just the obvious, calling bullshit? How would you negotiate this
with

56:01

them? Now with this, | would go, I'd go to the guy who's operating the restaurant and say,
give me an option to buy your lease and get into money to buy the lease. Okay. That's it
for from what you're telling me, | don’t know how successful a restaurant is or what. So
you can pay us or maybe you throw something on the table. And that represents the
buyout price. That covers that that area. So now when you go to the owner to buy the
property, you say you'll buy it subject to lease, which is going to diminish the value of the
property and the sellers eyes, because it’s a negative lease. But you already have
contracted it because you've gone to the operator of the restaurant, and you got an
option to buy him out. Or to drive away between the building owner and the tenant.
Correct. Okay, let’s cover now you guys another thing is just when you get Are you
consider same thing. If you exercise the option to buy the lease, and you put into position,

you basically you're now in control of that property and with the owner of the property is
JO

everything what they can do or what they can't do, why they would do it. And what
advantages there are to be part of that. Now, to be part of your your master plan or your
book, one of the things is insurance, as always view got quite a few got 20 locations, and
you go to an insurance company and say we want to watch, we should 20 locations, that
the storage is going to be okay, and the boats are not going to be, or the RV vehicles are
not gonna be that's an attractive package and something where you could provide a
cost, which is cheaper than somebody do it on a single basis in one location. So the
advantages of a franchise are great if this but it's hard to get why would people use it?
What do you have to do it once you draw out a list of what it is that you do? And what
requirements that you have? For example, they have to have protection, they have to
have insurance, they have to have fire coverage, they have to have good security, they
have to maybe have capital, whatever it is that you bring into the table, why somebody
would want to store their vehicles, or the boats with you, or with a franchise arrangement?
difficult. Look at what happens. There are a lot of storage companies which have
franchises. Absolutely. Oh, yeah. So look at their paperwork. What is it? They give her?
Why? Why would somebody want part of that franchise? Besides the advertising? In other
words, you built a name? People want to go there, because you're known. You're known for
this. And they're when you're known, you're giving your gift, they have some advantages,
because they're with you. So it’s an interesting concept. I've never seen it applied to what
you're looking at, but there’s no reason that you can't be right, right. Yeah. Not Not only
that, | think that it's an opportunity. Because having, I've never heard of it, which doesn't
make it that unusual that I've never heard of it. But conceptually, it’s a good idea. Because
| don't see too many in the marketplace. Right? There's a big difference, especially if
you're taking vehicles, they have a different sizes, you got to get mobile homes that did
run into hundreds of 1000s of dollars, you can get all kinds of boats that you have can
learn from small boats, the big boats, and everything as far as maintenance and repairs
and security. So there are a lot of facets to the business that you're in when you're talking
storage. That to me would be attractive. If you can sell it which it may be easy to knock,
it's easy to sell, but hard to sell. But to where you built really something in a brand name.
So if | have the brand, what do they get? What do they get get for? What do you give
them using you? Now what do they get? What do they get now? Oh, | mean, they would
get like you're talking about a car. If | if | had a vehicle? Assume now that we had that |
had a vehicle. Yeah, and | want to store it. Okay, | want to basically store it because | don't
use it. So | use it didn't in the winter time or the summertime or | take certain trips, and

then | want to put it in a safe place. And | want to put it to you. What do you give me?

43:06

Well, if you spread that the franchise across, you're essentially offering people a brand

name. So you're not storing No,
JO

JO

JO

gonna use that appraiser to basically give you these counter counter appraisal. And you
it's hard for two appraisers to review when one is low and one is higher. If they both if they
both are qualified, that generally speaking, the appraisers for the banks are not good
appraisers. They're not the best appraisers, the bank accepts them, but the print the
appraisers could be way off base. They're not they you know, they're generally in the
industry available for someone that's really looking for valuation, a true valuation. Right.
So start by getting another appraisal. Now, this is another alternative. To the extent that
your short was Did you got to the loan to value ratio changes by virtue of the revised
appraisal? Think of getting some insurance to cover the difference in the event is a
foreclosure? What would that look like? I've never heard of such a thing. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Get somebody to come up and say, okay, that is the bank foreclosures. And the difference
between the the what they wanted, and what you wanted is that we covered by some car,
buying a bank loan, or some type of lending loan. There are companies that do that, and
it works well, because they don't put out the money. all they're doing is covering a
particular potential risk. But in order to have the risk come to fruition, there has to be a

foreclosure and the bank has to get hurt. See what you're saying

18:21

pay somebody for the protection to essentially be a guarantor of sorts,

18:27

the guarantor for the just for the difference between what you what the appraisal should
be, and what it was under reduced terms. So if they come up with an appraisal, who
actually knew how to run an appraisal for why you will cover the difference between x and
y, with a with some type of loan lending agreement, there are companies that do that,

and it’s great, because they generally don't, they're not gonna pay off. This is this is
exactly the what Lloyds of London has been doing for years on claims. They cover the
excess. So you get somebody covers well to claim is only for $100,000. And But
meanwhile, things are what additional protection cases are catastrophe. And Lloyds of
London will go ahead, say all car pay for the extra, because they know that they total
losses are not generally more than 100,000. So there’s a market out there to pay this type

of insurance and this type of protection.

19:25

fascinating, fascinating. Perhaps after this call, or if you have some, some names that you

can point me to that would be really, really helpful.
JO

JO

work? Oh, no, you the answer? Is this group. Does it make sense? Yeah, is but you what
you'd have to do is file for a variance? Of course, do you file a variance and say the
special fit, | should be entitled to more instead of going to be stricted to six stories, that
because the neighborhood and what's around their attire and how to be able to go 10
stories, and you may be able to win it and zoning but that's really it’s a very, it’s a
variation of Jones zoning, based on some type of a reason why that they want to do it
another way that you have been penalized, or it's for the benefit of the city or the
municipality, but it’s a zoning thing. You can't it's very interesting concept, but you got to
tell it to somebody who can do something and that's the zoning. That's a municipality. Of
course. Of course. Okay. Okay. Okay. Next, let’s go to hidden. George, what's up? What's
up? How you doing? I'm doing great. How you doing?

37:55

Let's good to hear man. Thanks for all the information that's good to hear in these times
an expert opinion? Yep. Well, hey, look. So we talked a little bit about this, but I've
developed a brand for boat and RV storage, and the name of that brand is RV vault. And
we have systems and processes I'll put in place and you know, we handle different
locations geographically, you know, have it set up to where we could continue to go, more
and more really locations, not a matter for the systems. Up until this point, we've really
only been looking to, you know, acquire real assets and bring them underneath the
umbrella for you know, real property ownership. But we're thinking, you know, there's
really no other brand space out there of strictly Hey, you know, we're a premier boat and
RV storage facility. What are your thoughts on licensing the brand and establishing, you

know, a franchise agreement to use the RV vault brand processes and systems?

38:53

No, | think it's great. | think it's great. And assuming that you can come up with some
reason why people would would want to have that franchise. Because what do you what
what protections he gives you get more insurance? Do you have guidance? Why would
they want to use you? Why is the franchise value who you have to show it to what you can
do or bring to the table, either in some type of documentation or connections with the
municipalities where it's been accepted fire insurance? What do you what do you bring in
and makes the franchise worthwhile, the concept is great. But in order to do it in any
franchise, and I've handled quite a few of them, the franchise has to be worth money. The
people will go there so it doesn't make a difference whether it's a Dunkin Donuts or what
have you that it’s there and they they base the company or the brand services the all of

the locations and does something but there's but there's a master plan, which covers
JO

JO

JO

2733

Okay. This next question is from Sept then. So you're on the line. | see your number Victor.
Hey, George. Yeah.

28:01

Hi there. How are you guys doing? I'm doing good. How are you doing? Good, great call so
far. Thank you for taking my question. So my question is in regards to conflicting language
from the SBA ideal loan that was that was offered as part of the COVID 19 release and
existing commercial financing that a borrower may have. So | recently recently applied for
the ideal loan, the economic injury disaster disaster relief loan for a couple of my LLCs to
have my lessees have existing commercial loans in place, and what kind of a commercial
loan so they're their portfolios of houses, and then all of the houses are under one
commercial loan for commercial loan or mortgage. Big difference. |'m sorry, it's a it's a
mortgage, commercial mortgage. Okay. So the commercial the the mortgage documents
for the for the existing lender basically are very strict as far as adding any second liens or
adding any additional financing to the single purpose LLC. The SBA loan, | didn't get the
fine print until after the loans were approved. And they're they're waiting for my signature
but I'm getting conflicting information. My my attorney is concerned because he he
basically reads it that the SBA wants to have rights to the LLC is collateral. But last
weekend, another investor on a zoom call said that their attorney interpreted the SBA
loan documents as just wanting the LLC is real property, like inventory or assets. Well, not
not really after what I've already call that real property is generally real estate. But below,
you're talking about other other assets, not not physical deeds of the land. Correct. Yeah.
So we're talking about basic inventory. worry that the company might have machinery
equipment, that type of thing, which is not ordinarily, which would the SBA loan reward
because this is usable. And if they had to sell it, that's sellable, but they don't end up with
title to the land. Okay. Well, what you just described, are you are you describing as far as
what the SBA normally wants? | don't have a, you're talking to the wrong guy. | never
made an SBA loan. Okay. Okay. Well, | can't tell you, but there, get yourself a lawyer in the
area, who knows SBA loans and you find out my gut reaction is that it would not cover
you would not violate the terms of your mortgage, if you gave them if you gave them the
right toys, inventory or inventory, which you have machinery, equipment, or items, which
are not physically physically the land, but could be utilized in connection with land. So you

have tools you have

31:04
JO

stuck with you. And you could be a lot harder to deal with in a restaurant tour. Who's tired
of operating? Right? Wow, wow, wow. Okay, say hey, so he goes to the owner, the FDA,
after you control the lease, you go to the owner of the property and you say, hey, at this
point, if you want me out of the way you got to pay me. And that's the way if you want to
sell a property, and you're buying an intermediate position that that we should wish which
we've been can be very attractive. done it many times. Wow. That's extremely clever.

Wow. Yeah. Okay, okay. Okay, soeak to me next time. I'd set it up as | set it up on zoom.

57:46

Yes, absolutely. Thank you very much. Have a great evening and great day of your week.
Rest of the month. You too. Okay. Can | Oh,

Robert 57:58

there's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com make sure

you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful
syndicating
JO

storage, | would have a storage, maybe have materials, that type of friend. Okay. No, it
doesn't weigh a business lender there. There are factors, factors, which will make loans
based on the fact that you have income coming in, and they would cover your operations
and all the merchandise but they don't cover the real estate. So | would get to get a
lawyer who handles SBA loans. unsaved. And when you finally get the answer, I'd like you
to tell me what it is. Okay. Okay, because we started, possibly SBA is no, but if you're
asked me the question, what | worried about if I, if | had, if | had a good SBA loan, would |
do it? Even though it might cause a technical violation in a mortgage? The answer is yes. |
would do it. Because | don't think | can't see a lender that is going to have a problem if
you didn't give them some type of a mortgage as against the property. Other words, that's
the question, is it? Is it a second mortgage? Or is it just equipment financing? Well, the loan
documents for SBA aren't clear about what the actual like how the collateral is going to
be secured, like it doesn't say if it's going to be a lien, but does say they have the right to
put a lien on. Basically anything it doesn't didn't say property specifically is its it is not
what they don't put a lien on real estate, do they? It's not clear. Yeah. And | need to find
out. Good. This is what we have lawyers, we're lucky. | never objected to lawyers getting
paid hire one and let them go to work. Okay, so yeah, I'll find a lawyer that. Yeah, yeah,
it's worth looking into. It's an interesting question. And something that you do know and
find find out, | wouldn't, if the loan is not that attractive, don't take it too, and to
jeopardize the loan, the mortgage. But | when | look at what, what are they prior? What
are the SBA file against the property? Yeah, | wish they would get some clear guidance on
it's the loan documents as is it's it's unclear if they even do file anything this it says that
they have the right to file it. But it doesn't say that they're definitely gonna file it within a
certain amount of time. | mean, personally guaranteed to So yeah, | know, | know, that
that you got to take it to consent. It’s an interesting concept at this point. And, Mike, my
feeling would be to, if you need the money and the attractive rate, take it and fight it later
on, if it happens. Okay. | can see. What | can see is that a court would be very sympathetic
to an action taken by a first mortgagee based on the fact that on the restriction they have
in the mortgage, and you wanted an SBA loan, as your which you took out as a result of
COVID-19 | just can't see that happening. It was | can | guess case can see a judge's gonna
let it happen, and | can't see the banks are gonna let it happen. Unless the property goes
into foreclosure. It’s not a technical, it's a technical violation, not a real violation where
you don't pay to move, you don't pay them a loan, you know, so that's, that’s my feeling

on it. And it's loans. Great. | take it. So maybe you don't take it from me.

34:31

So maybe a related question then would be, let's say, so it’s clear that they don’t want
secondary financing on the property. But George in your mind, if typical, right, which very

typical, but if there was a UCC one lien filed on equipment or something, some other
jo

JO

jo

JO

big uptick.

07:49

Right, right. Absolutely. Absolutely. | mean, if you look at other virus outbreaks, whether it
was the flu, whether it was SARS, whether it was Spanish Flu in in 1919 1918 1919, there were
specially two waves that was a spring wave, it went down in numbers during the summer,
and then came back at much higher numbers with the second wave in the fall and winter.

So that may still be in our future.

08:15

That may be what troubles me is the the medical field really doesn't know. And they
project. And when they're created, some of the projections they had was so far off, | mean,
they were projecting how many millions they were going to die from it, and then how bad
it's going to be and how it's going to accelerate. And these are just models based on
suppositions. And the suppositions could turn out to be wrong. But it could turn out to be
on the low side or the high side. But | find generally that those the as far as the the
medical people concerned, they would much rather come up with projections and say
they're wrong or that they over projected, but rather than under projected, so when it
comes to the depths and what have you. But nevertheless, it's a it has put a clamp on the
on the economy and what's going on in the United States in many countries around the
world. So it's something you have to live with. But my personal feeling is Yeah, we'll deal

with it. One of the things | saw today was

09:15

that, | mean, you've obviously spent a fair bit of time in Europe and people tend to use
public transit, they're much more extensively if they go on vacation, they'll take the train,
they won't drive. And we're seeing a big reversal of that automobile sales in France right
now are through the roof. Yeah, people want to go on vacation, but they're saying I'm not

taking the train.

09:35

That's true. That's true. And what about taking planes? exactly same thing. Yeah, the, the
hospitality industries as it’s got a long ways to come back. Just be until people get

confidence. Correct. | mean, we were going on a cruise or taking my family on a cruise
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

12533

| mean, | saw Jay Powell came out this morning, advising the the Treasury to keep
spending money that if they don't keep spending money on stimulus that it will arrest the

the recovery. And what do you think the legacy is of all this money printing?

12:50

Yeah, that's a big, that's a big problem. That's a big problem. | don't know if it's another
one of these cycles where there has to work its way out, you don't know. It's economy
shortages and grows tremendously. Then you can be later recovered baby economic
growth will be enough to overcome the excess spending coupled with the tariffs. When
the money comes in there. They'll work it out. But it certainly, you know, they, if they're
planning on solving it in three years, it's not going to work maybe 30 years in 10 years. But
hey, it’s part of part of the course. My personal feeling is very, very interesting. | think

they're going to stop paying trying to on the bumps.

12:35

What do you think that that will do to the US dollar?

13:38

| whatever is as the US dollar is going to do a lot to the Chinese dollars. In other words,
they do. Somebody is going to take a firm stand and say, Hey, this check this came, the
virus came out, it’s your fault. It didn’t tell us everything was involved. You hit it, and we're
just not going to pay the bonds. Bro. I'm not saying not pay them at all. But maybe it’s a
good time to renegotiate. And they hold the bulk of the paper. But that’s my own personal
opinion. let's not let's let's get out the things we know they're not things we speculate.
Right on. Right on.

14:13

Okay. Well, this first question is one from our specific business. But it's one that | think is
pretty universal. It’s one that real estate investors and developers encounter all the time.
And this is a project that we're building up in Spokane, Washington, it’s 142 unit project.
And the appraiser delivered a number that's below the expectation. Wait, wait, whose

appraisal, the appraiser for the liner? No longer
JO

JO

On Yeah, | find it on a bunch of properties which | am involved with. That was residential
hold. propel very firm to commercial is taking advantage and configuring will will delay
for a while we don't know yet. They could, you know, no, they're not going to be evicted.
So they can again, do things if they want to show the delays if the as such we're basically
on the commercial end, but not on the residential end. Correct. | don't know if you've seen

the same thing.

05:22

Yeah, very much so very much. So. In fact, one of the things that we're seeing is, | mean,
there's really two sectors that have been most impacted. Certainly hospitality is one, but
restaurants are the other. And what we're seeing on the restaurant side is some of them
are closing, because they have to a lot of them are closing, just because there's tired

operator syndrome, who don't want to go through the energy of restarting.

05:45

Exactly right. Exactly right, the energy of reciting and restarting at that point, and they
won't see you probably have to deal with the landlords. And it's just been on for a long
period time. And they say not enough is enough. Let's close it up. Right? Oh, yeah, you're
absolutely right. But | think there's hospitality we come back, we're pretty good time. |
think any, as far as the COVID, is COVID seems to be tailing off in many areas, where
we're not losing as many hospitalizations. And | look at it differently, that they've done a
lot more testing, which is fine. But when you do the testing, you find people who have the
virus, but have an array symptomatic or not sick enough. But they have it but they show
up now as a as a case. To me, there's that's just because you're doing more testing, which
is fine. But | really look at what's going on with the hospitalizations, and the people going
into hospitals and those going on to ventilators and what have you. And that doesn't
seem to be a tremendous uptick. It seems to me that it’s leveled off in both places. But
also, it’s shown up, you know, in many states, and some say, But isn’t that to the fact that
they just didn't test? The same thing? Yeah, absolutely. Now, you should test but people
have it. But so what | mean, they have it truly don't have that effect. You | look basically,
for those that are that are in the hospitals. | also look at the how many people come out
of the hospitals and how many you go on serious, warm weather on ventilators. And |
think to a great extent that it’s being reduced, although | don't know what's going to
happen now with all the protests and everything with people being you know, side by side
not having social distance. | don't know. But to me, my my feeling is that we're going to
find out pretty soon, certainly within the next couple of weeks, what with with all the

social with all the protests in the in the various states, you'll see whether or not there is a
JO

JO

JO

JO

puts up the real estate, |

50:26

don't know, | haven't | haven't | haven't seen the franchise models have whenever joint
ventures, okay. They were a branch | represented chock full of notes, cooperation, chock
full of notes, and they had franchises were restored with somebody who would operate
under a chock full of store and but you had the chocolate and nuts menu, and you had to
do certain things in accordance with their protocol. And that's what you'd find with
Wendy's and all these fast food operators. They were all operating under a franchise, and
they have to have a certain menu, and they have to have certain prices, and they were
controlled, pretty much by the parent company, the parent company, they pay for the
franchise, and they also pay a fee of how successful franchises. So that's that’s what
typical of a franchise is how it fits in when you have what we're talking about here. It's a
little more difficult, because you're talking about a different type of franchise
arrangement. But that also makes it more interesting. Possibly, if nobody's in it. Why is it
maybe that's a good area? Blue Eyes everybody. gap? Yeah, I'm not sure if you look how
many how many fast food entities are there at this black garden? So so many, with
different types of food and different types of menu and servicing different types of people
different hours at this bill, you're not going to one? How many are there? | don't know of
any in a particular area that you're interested in. So that makes it attractive, assuming

that you can make it worthwhile.

52:02

Yeah, there are no trusted brands in the space, which is what Sophia

52:06

gets. Right. That's great. Thanks. And not only that, maybe you make to tie it in with some
kind of company with a name that will give you the appearance of being connected with
them. Yeah. |,

52:22

| don't want to waste too much time here. | know we're running short. But what's your
advice on you know, actually, hiring counsel to help you start the franchise paperwork

and everything like that? And | assume it's a specialty.
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

each other and see the contestants is much better.

00:48

Of course, of course. Yeah. We just kept it. Technologically simple. Up until now, but yes,

zoom is great to use it multiple times a day.

00:58

Yeah, they're good. They're great. | like them. Fantastic. Okay, but they will pass this will
this one won't be on zoom. But the next one will be but you sent me the zoom link. And

that's easy. Absolutely.

01:09

Well, before we start, if you remember when we were in Dallas together with the real
estate guys. You remember Robert Helms and his dad, Bob Helms. Yeah. Sadly, Bob Sr.

passed away two days ago.

01:25

Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. He was. He was not he was pretty young as | recall. He was 85.

No, 85. That to me. That's young. | agree. | agree. I'm sorry to hear that. The good guy.

01:40

Yeah. Yeah, he was in good health until a diagnosis about 10 weeks ago.

01:47

Was the diagnosis. He had a brain tumor. Oh, okay. It was not operable. No. Well, acid

way she go. Yep.

01:57

Yep. Okay, well, let's, let's dive right in here. We've got more people joining as we speak.

Good. Okay. So really the first thing that's let's kind of look at the big picture. Right now
JO

19:34

No, | would like to accept I've been out of that marketplace for a long period of time.
Okay. Because Lloyds is not what | did a number of did. | did a number of deals. Where the
you had you had somebody brought in a guarantor and the guarantor got paid or those
knowing they would never have to pay out on the guarantee because they're only
covering the spread. The spread is between What what what the bank thinks is worth, and
what you think it's worth, or how much you've got insurance. So that’s covering the
difference, and they pay, you pay for that. But it’s it, it's not not a big premium. There are
a lot of companies that do it that big, because it's a risk that in more probability they
know will not happen. Because there has to be a downturn in the market, the same thing,
you give a guarantor, or you get bond or do the coverage completion, their insurance
companies and other companies could do that. That's their business, right was to cover
that potential risk. Because the reason reason that they do that is the chance of paying
off is extremely remote. Except the weather is a major catastrophe, and they're willing to
cover the possibility of a major catastrophe. So that's my feeling on that. But | would, first
thing is get you get there go appraisers that are that you can, can hire that’s got a good
reputation. And generally, you can show them how the appraisal that came out is derelict
in in many areas as to what they use for the basis of their computations. and wondered
Scott, they always talk at COVID-19. Forget that. How the hell are you going to figure that
one? That's, that's the rationale for lowering an appraisal. Oh, it's pure speculation.
Absolutely. It is, and what is the correlation? So | can see correlation, where you get an
appraisal, and the market goes down. So the appraiser says, here's what it is, here's here's
my appraisal, and something had drastic happens in that particular marketplace, that
would affect the value real estate, which has nothing to do with with the possibility of a
pandemic. So that's pure speculation. And you got to have very conservative appraisal,
and | questioned whether or not that's not what the bank while the bank goes along with
that, because they would like to have a, you know, loan to value ratio as low as possible.
That makes sense. Okay. Okay. Very good. Okay. This next question is from Suzy, she
could not be on the call. But she and her family have a 500 acre parcel of land, it's
actually three or five parcels if | remember correctly, and it borders on the edge of your
county in Pennsylvania. Now, all of the land that's bordering on the county line, looking at
the GIS appears to have a conservation easement overlaid on top of the property within
the boundary of the county line. But who overlaid it? | don't | weren't really clear on that.
No, | know, but let me just let's just talk with some some knowledge. Both of he cut
easements for all kinds of purposes for conservation. And they're they're not that
uncommon. And usually there is a benefit to the land owner if they will permit a some

type of a an easement, some type of a conservation easement. And if you have it, |
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

wouldn't if if the county would basically just put that restriction on. without you. Actually,
they put a blanket on land, that's that's to me, would be almost the equivalent of eminent
domain and your title get money because they reduced it certainly reduces the value of
the property.

23:29

Correct. Exactly. And that's precisely the point. And so it wasn’t voluntary. There was no

just compensation for the Conservation designation.

23:40

So good. And | think it i think that that sums to our head, get a lawyer, get a lawyer who's
familiar with with your county, and find out if there is compensation, no compensation, or
whether any cases that were brought, and I'm sure there, we're going to find them, where
the owners of the property on an involuntary easement sought compensation from the

from the government to the attraction of the value of the land. And | think they are many

associates. To me, it’s it’s almost a question of eminent domain.

24:13

Do you know if there would be limitations on such a claim?

24:17

| don't know. That's this is that we're in, you know, an area and that's not my area of
expertise. | don't know if there's a statute of limitations or when it was done, but | my
feeling would be that this probably if there is a statute of limitation, it probably runs at
least 10 or 15 years. Okay. So most of the most of the these type of easements are
voluntary. Oh, yeah, certainly, since | say if you if you agree to do this, then we will reduce
your taxes but you have to rule over pretty years. And then you say fine, so I'll have a land
| want to use a golf. I'll leave it as green space, or I'll leave it as a ballpark or | will agree to
that. | won't | won't touch

25:00

Absolutely, yeah, since | think 2013 or 2014, there’s an IRS we'll call 170 H, which allows you

to designate a conservation easement donated either to a 501 c three or to the
Olles

George+Ross+June+2020

a Thu, 9/910:05AM @ 58:14

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

franchise, people, appraiser, appraisal, pay, property, question, sba, area, land, loan, building,

absolutely, cover, real estate, zoning, big, boats, vehicles, easement

SPEAKERS

Robert

© Robert 00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

O :

A 00:05
Good evening, George. Hi. Okay, | guess we can be no. But here | am. Well, good evening,
you know, Victor, you want to look into the zoom meetings, where you're holding it as a
zoom meeting. All we but we don't see each other.

O .

A 00:21
We can do it as a gym if you want. | just have you dialing into the dial in number, but we
have usually half about half the people dialing in on zoom and half just dialing in over the
phone.

O :

A 00:33

Yeah, well, Okay, next time. We'll do it on zoom. Okay, yeah. I'm on the phone now. But
that's where | didn't do it, then you could have to send me the link and everything. But

next time we'll do it on zoom. Yeah, that would be lovely. Yeah. Because then we can see
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

assets of a company, there should be no conflict.

34:51

Absolutely, absolutely correct. Hit it right on the head. Absolutely correct. That's not the
basis of it. They make it alone on real property, not making a little On the equipment

that's involved. | think you would do you rag on that one.

35:05

So that so set that might be a question to ask the lender or lender that has experienced
with SBA, whether if there is a lien filed, is it a UCC one or is it an actual recorded lien on

real property?

35:20

Yeah, | don’t think there's this point your data they don't have when you put you file the
SBA lien, are you giving them the deed to the property? Are you filing a mortgage? it? |
don't know. | don't think so. Yeah, I'm not sure. Not only I'm not either. So we're all
speculating at that point, get a lawyer who's involved in and let me know how it comes
out. I'm interested. We'll do thank you both. Okay. What's next? Okay.

Bact

Next, this one is from Patrick, who could not be on the call. And this is a zoning problem.
So he's looking at a parcel where we're gonna have to visualize this over the phone. We're
not on the zoom call this time. But the zoning on the property would allow six storeys
across the street, there's already an existing 25 storey building, and the zoning behind
limits to four storeys, and | think the buildings that are there are three storey Patrick's idea
is if you draw a plane, a diagonal line from six storeys up to the 25, storeys, that would
define a pyramid or a triangle in space, where you could actually build higher than six
storeys without creating a visual obstruction. And while there's no zoning code to allow
that, his thought is, well, if you did that, maybe you could get 14 floors at the front of the
building and only six stories at the back. Does this even does this creative line of thinking

even make any sense? Have you seen something like that

36:56
JO

JO

and they canceled it and we cancelled it. That's next question is Would we go on another
one? No, you say Maybe not, if you're touring, you're hesitant, and usually they booked far
in advance. So it’s that hotels and places, the tourist places our roads going to be wildly
for people who have confidence that it's okay, that they're willing to do it. And we'll see
what happens with the Disney World and all the others as to do people really follow the
social distancing. And my personal feeling is that makes a huge difference. knows, | think
if people wearing masks, that's a tremendous thing. Because | think that's, that's basically
where it was, was being passed on was through droplets through the air. And if you stop it,
then you don't have it. And you don't have that the tendency to be in a place where
somebody is coughing, or somebody says sneezing or just just breathing breathing heavy,
and you protect against that, that that makes a big difference. That's my feeling. And but
it seems to have a consensus in the medical medical field and say that's, that's very

important.

11:01

Well, certainly the Czech Republic, that was something they instituted very early on, and
they got much better numbers than almost anywhere else in Europe. Yeah, that was a

major factor.

11:11

And | think it's | go home mom wholeheartedly for that, | think is great. A good idea. But |
can see, there could be be affairs where people will be Yeah, they're going to take your
temperature and they're basically going to sit on the facemask and Time will tell because
as you got the two week period where you have the incubation, and if they have the the
contact tracing with somebody has it? And who did you see, and then they go back, trace
back who might be infected. | think that’s that’s, that's important. | think they're on the
right track plus, because we've coupled with the fact that there's no very little doubt in my
mind until have some kind of a vaccine, or certain some kind of medication. Because the
now the seriousness has really dropped off. You don't remember you didn't have
ventilators? No, it didn't do shorter ventilators. And no, it has created tremendous chronic
illness. | don't | don't see it today. A | mean, statistically, | don’t see it today. And a lot of
people died, what would they be passed away? Unfortunately, we're a nation of nursing
homes or had pre existing conditions, which make a difference who with any type of virus,
the same thing with the flu. So having passed on this subject, | think this too, will pass. But
it's going to create some some hiccups and waves along the way, certainly in real estate

and investments. Absolutely.
JO

JO

JO

government and they will allow you to deduct the not the cost of the land, but the highest

and best use value of the land as a tax deduction in the year.

25:25

Right. The dedication. Perfect. That's exactly right. Right. And that's typical. So when you
say it’s involuntary, | don’t really answer I've never seen it as really involuntary. Right, right.
Okay. But what I'm sure there's there was, of course, there was there were water rights and
so forth with streams and the drainage and protecting wetlands and things on a but that's
on a different basis, protecting wetlands. So it has to do with you're protecting an
environment. Here, you're not protecting an environment. It's a voluntary effect or
protection of the environment. What is now in involuntary? Does that raise it to a different
set of facts? Probably, | think a good lawyer in the area can get all the answers is not my
area of expertise. Well, I've seen it a lot in various places. But usually it's voluntary. I've
never seen it where it’s involuntary. Got it. Okay, with with the government just put it on.
Okay. Understand is, there's a difference, you can change, the government usually has a
right to zoning. So they can now decide what land is going to be zoned for. But they can't
tell you what that cover group with a blanket easement is different than zoning. So they
can look as five what you got here, you were talking, | think he said something like 500
acres. They can say art, if you want to build houses, they got to be on a two acre plot or
one acre plot, or you can't have that many in the air. They can do that. That's permissible,
right? Yeah, cuz you're taking vacant land, and you now want to build on it. And they can
say you can't do but they can’t voluntarily start to say you can't build on it anyway. That

would be violate the law,

27:12

right? Because in this particular instance, this is a part of the part. So | think about 177

acres is designated for development, but a portion of it has this conservation

27:22

overlay gap. Well, that’s it, you need to go to lawyer look into it and get going. Because
the advice, I'm just coming up with my ideas from what I've seen, and they may have
changed dramatically, because I've been out in the marketplace for a long period of time.
| that was not my expertise at any time. Right, right. I'm just giving you the benefit of my

opinion, which could be correct or slightly, slightly incorrect. Understood.
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

14:39

that's the problem. That's the problem. The problem is he got the appraiser fertilizer is
going to do one thing. How do you think he’s going to appraise it the way he wants them

the way the bank wants you to prove?

14:49

Well, in fact, we've talked with the lender and the lender is actually trying to push the

appraiser themselves saying no, you're being a little bit harsh.

14:57

Yeah, yes. So get another appraiser Okay, getting get appraiser that's got a good
reputation that they find out from the lender, what other appraisers have used? Or if | give
you a john Jones, who's got good qualifications at that point, what do you accept his
appraisal? And if they say yes, which they basically should say, yes, then you get you got
some ammunition to go back against the first appraiser. | find the generally as far as
praises, but braces for basically, they will, if they have an opportunity to be conservative
they will be, which has nothing to do with real estate, nothing. Just their idea. Of course,
they think that COVID-19 is going to, quote cause lower prices. Why? Why? Why does real
estate change, change by virtue of the fact that you have a COVID-19? The value of real
estate didn’t order, my goodness, | can understand if there is a substantial recession,
which continues for a period of time and a downturn, kind of big problems with the stock
market. What Yeah, | can see that’s that that's something to take into consideration, but
to speculate on what's going to happen as a result of a COVID-19. That's pure speculation.
And | don't think is warranted.

16:12

| agree with you now. So going with with a new appraiser is one possibility if we are stuck
with this current appraiser who has penalized both the rents and the cap rate that's kind

of like how far can we influence the appraiser with without actually tainting the appraisal,

16:32

you know, but the way to influence the appraisal is to get a get a counter counter
appraisal from a qualified appraiser. Somebody who's in the industry has got a long long

track record or is accepted by other lenders in the in the same market. And then you're
JO

JO

JO

we've got the economy going in multiple different directions, simultaneously, one, and
we've got 30 million people unemployed. And then the people, the people who do have
jobs, spend three months in lockdown, not spending any money, their bank accounts are
flush with cash, kind of a forced savings of other type. And we're seeing right now some
very big spending on big ticket items, home improvements, boats, RVs. That seemed to be
stimulating the economy in ways that nobody really anticipated. The question is when? So
you know, we see some very encouraging economic data. But we're also hearing on the
other side that the bailout money is going to dry up. When it does what's going to
happen? We're in an election year. Obviously, the nobodies kind of want to be seen as

turning off the taps in in an election year. What's your prediction?

03:07

Well, first of all, | got to look at the bailout money, the bailout money. For the problems
created with the bailout money is a lot of people chose not to work. Correct, because they
got more money from the government if they didn't work. So that's how to, and it's still
going on for for an additional period of time, that it | don't know how long but | think was
least at least a few months. So that created an unusual impact. Yeah, so you look at the
30 million unemployed, | don't know where you got the number from. But | don't know
that, that that’s people that are getting unemployment benefits, or just people who are
not working, | don't know. But in any event, let's get to the substance of the matter. It’s
true, that there has been pent up buying by reason people do have a lot of money, they
couldn't get out to the shops, so they didn't an eight out pick, they you know, they've now
got it and coupled with the fact that they really didn't lose any money as a result of the,
the COVID they didn't really lose. So it's true, they are pretty, pretty flush. So | think you're
gonna, what's gonna happen is you're going to have a big uptick, and maybe big items
are going to go as well. One area where there's a lot of cash around originally, people, you
know, didn't did what didn't hit them as badly. And the final pocketbook, you know, he
tried to stop paying rent, but that’s temporary, temporary, and they got a pot full of

money from the government. So that's, that's really the impetus that's that's pushing it all.

04:41

Well, even rent collections across the board have been pretty high. | mean, most of the
investors that | soeak with maybe saw four or 5% drop in collections, and usually that's in

the lower asset classes, Class A and Class B.

04:53
JO

JO

Die)

keep the real estate separate from the operation of the business. Yeah. Okay. Gotcha.
Yep. So in the event that the business goes sour, you still have the real estate untouched.
Gotcha. Gotcha. Okay, cool. Thank you. Okay. You're welcome. Fantastic. Okay. Okay. We
really covered a whole bunch of different items. You know, | tried to when when we
started out this a few years ago, he was we were talking primarily real estate. Where are
we? Yeah, it’s true. Yeah, that's true. And look where we are. We're talking COVID-19. And
what have you done to RV franchises? That's fine. I've been in the area I've been in all
those areas with Frank done a lot of franchising for Donald, in connection with his did all
the franchising under the Trump name, which was very interesting. And so I'm familiar with
the area. And it's, it's worthwhile looking into if you have the right product. And in this
instance, the storage vehicle sounds to me like an unusual product that could work good,

good work as a franchise,

46:33

any opinion on whether to front end load the income on the franchise fee versus the back
end on the royalty? What the royalty what royalty we're talking about? So when you get so
when you set up the franchise, you could get a continuing income stream from the

business?

46:53

That will absolutely right now, that's it, because you're generally speaking as a fee for
getting the franchise, correct. Okay, and having the only franchise in a particular area. So
now you you're not going to have more competition, that you pay for that they get the
you get the protection of that being the only one in a city or a local locality, whatever. So
you do have that. And in addition, yet, you got to pay a fee, they pay a certain percentage
of what you make, based on your sales, which is which typical in a franchise is approved
based on new sales. If the franchise goes very good, you're selling a lot of product,
definitely you pay a fee of a certain percentage of that to the parent company. So | think

that would would apply here too.

47:39

Right. So So presumably a fairly low barrier to entry. Maybe even something below six

figures, but then a royalty. Oh, yeah. 345 percent?
JO

JO

_)O

JO

47:51

Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. And if you get some documentation of other
companies, which have done this in the starer storage business, where where you see
what their what their documents are uploaded, come on through a particular name that
people would go to because the name is well known, like, | can't think of offhand. Yeah,
storage facilities where they operate if they're operated franchise. And people go there
because of the franchise knowing it's secure, that they protected, they have good security
guards, and they built a reputation. Have you looked at the documentation to get that
franchise would be very helpful as a prototype for what you're looking for with this with
this particular franchise? franchise? Don't change. Have a look at U haul? Yeah, yeah,
franchises don't change that much. You was a good, good, it’s a good one to look at. and
say if we got the U haul franchise there, what did you get? Because if people know Yeah, if

| needed au haul, Toyota, it certainly makes sense to look into that.

49:02

So is it worth going as far as developing the franchise model you know, unique assets,
whether it be management, software, marketing campaigns, whatever to really set

yourself apart, | mean, there's value in the brand name talking about

49:17

course. That's your that's your that’s your calling card, that's why they would go to you.
Right? Those they go to you because your name is known and you know, you have service
you have quality, you have good fees, you have the protection you can deliver what you're
going to deliver, you're going to be safe if you have locations that you're protected from
the from the weather or protected from thievery or vandalism and there you give them
good insurance rates and they get they can have access to the vehicles when they
wanted all of that to know Yeah, that's that's your that's your your, your calling card is why
they would go to you they get all these Vantage all these advantages. Right may go down
to may go down to servicing, you could serve you can serve as a vehicle to you whatever
they would need, they need repairs, you could get repairs, if you need to, they need to
delivery, maybe it's delivery tie in all the bells and whistles, is, is putting in little putting in

one of the vehicles

50:19

is dirty sort of a franchise model that's more or less a joint venture, you know, someone
JO

JO

JO

jo

JO

43:12

| understand No, I'm not. I'm gay. | switched switched tracks on you and saying | assume
that you and | are this and you got the you got your your location is RV evolved. And |
have a customer, I've got a an RV, which is a fairly expensive piece of equipment. And now

| want to start with you. Good. What do we what do | get? What do you give me?

43:38

What is your job? Are these one of your biggest investments? And when you start with us,
you get to protect it from all the elements. And that's going to reduce the depreciation on
it. And you're really going to make a swarm with us because you're not No, | understand
what you're giving up. What you're basically telling me that you give it a perfectly safe
haven.

43:55

Yeah, right, right. You can be a safe haven, and | pay for the privilege of having a safe
haven and you put it indoors somewhere you lock it up. Right, that’s what you what you
do provide. Now you may also give me some servers, the availability of services if | need
them. Now that's that's part of it. So that's attractive. Now build that into a franchise. The
same thing that you would do if | were individual put it with an item, what you would do
for the outset for anybody coming with the same thing, though, is | assumed if you saw if
you store or you storage vehicles, don't they get paid on the size of the vehicle? Absolutely
right. Of course, the bigger it is the more they pay. Yeah. Right. So the same thing with the
boat. It’s the same basic concept. So it's it's it's an interesting play, which | would certainly
recommend that you look into on a basis of franchising but require a good franchising

agreement. And how much did they pay for the franchise? Sure. Right,

45:00

right, is that we're gonna go on, would you? And | think you would, but what about the

separation of the franchise operating entities from the real estate assets?

45:14

separate? Even the ones we have now go ahead and transfer? Well, | wouldn't do it
wouldn't change whatever you're doing now at up I'm not familiar with and speak to

counsel your counsel and see what they think. But generally speaking, | would say keep
