JO

JO

5SI:L5

that that maybe it’s bothering me, because what it’s making me realize is, and I'm not outrageous on any of those
platforms, but | do speak my mind sometimes, and it’s making me realize I'm not allowed to do that anymore.

Russ 35:44

Well, | mean, not only that, you have to ask yourself, upside downside, you know, if you're doing it strategically,
because it's a dog whistle, if you will, you know, or, or attractive bait for a demographic you're trying to attract, and it
is an absolute turnoff to the people you would never want to do business with, then yeah, do it. But

36:09
that's how | think | do it. But still, they could shut you down. For one,

Russ 36:14

well, then that's a different discussion. And they clearly could. They clearly could | mean, they shut down. Ron Paul

36:21

mentioned that. Oh, my goodness. So the point is, it’s actually making me feel like, | can't say anything anymore. And
that said, X. That saddens me.

Russ 36:35

Yeah, again, you know, we're not here to be political, some people may feel that, you know, that infringement upon
free speech is justified for public safety. | personally happen to be of the school of thought that says, you know, if
you're willing to trade a little bit of, say, liberty for safety, you're going to get neither. | think Benjamin Franklin said
that. That's the way | feel about it, I'll put up with a lot of stuff | disagree with, | have the right to say the things | want
to say. With that said, Robert, and I've always worked really hard to position ourselves fairly neutral. And we put little
bits and pieces of, you know, share your exact technique I’m talking about, we put little bits and pieces of things into
the conversation. And the right people, they hear it. And, you know, and it doesn't really offend the people who aren't
on the same page, because it's incidental to the conversation, but to somebody who's really sniffing that out, and
that's what they're interested in, they hear it. And for somebody who's absolutely going to be appalled, and
disgusted and against who we are and what we believe in and what we think, then, you know, | haven't offended
them, because | haven't made it the main meal. But I've pushed them away enough for their benefit in mind, because
we're not going to get along, you know, they're not going to be that interested in getting to know me more, because
the more they get to know me, the more of that part that turned them off, they're going to see. So that's okay, it’s
okay for me, and it's okay for them. But I'm just saying, | don't ever lead with that, because | just don’t see any reason
I'd rather cast a wider net. And, you know, maybe even not that what | do is about converting anybody to any way of
thinking. But | do think in my enlightened self interest, the more people that understand economics and the policies,
or how policies affect economics, that's going to either create a, you know, a better investment environment for me. |
mean, | like it better when people cut taxes and make more capital available and promote business and reduce
regulations. | like that better than the opposite. | think it makes investing easier. It makes raising capital easier. It
makes small businesses and jobs and those people are all tenants easier. So but again, I'm not here to advocate for

specific policies, | just tried to explain how a set of policies, in my experience, create different types of outcome or
_)oO

home parks. But you know what, | got 120 investors interested maybe to go check it out. Maybe | can find a mobile
home park operator | can do a JV with. And I'll bring the front end and they bring the back end and | get to be a part
of the deal. And I'll learn and if | like it, maybe I'll do more if | don't like it. Well, no harm, no foul, and I've turned my
investor over to somebody who's a proven operator. Right? Don't try to practice something brand new with a whole
group of investors just because they want to do it. But it'll give you a gauge for what people are into. And then you
know, of course, part of it is again, in the sales training you learn they'll tell you what, what they're feeling. And at
some point, they might even tell you what they want. And then at some point, you have to drill down and try to
understand why they want it, you know, and there's two or three layers of why. But again, you don't you don't eat
that whole elephant. Oops, sorry. | need a dinosaur in one sitting. That’s why you have to keep great notes and keep
circling back. Right. There's a lot you learn about that gal or guy. Well in this case, it would be a gal for all of us that
you're dating. Here. I'm talking about stuff | know nothing about. It's been four yours more. But I'm starting to think
about that, like, oh, how would | do this? Sure, | could figure it out when I'm motivated, not there yet. But the point is,
is that, you know, you reveal yourself to that other person a little at a time and you, you discover things about that
person a little at a time. And then as you learn more over time, the relationship begins to either grow tighter and
closer, or you begin to realize that this isn't a match. And either one is okay, right, you don't want to put somebody in
a deal that you're not compatible with. And you don't want to put somebody in a deal that's not compatible with
their objectives and something you never ever, ever want to do. Right? Refer them out to somebody who can help
them that will get along with them, get credit on both sides for the referral, and then cross that person off your list
and be done with it and go find somebody new. Because the referrals that you get from somebody, birds of a feather
flock together referrals that you get from somebody who you don't get along with the odds of you getting along with
our friends aren't high. I'm not saying you won't, but the odds are not high. Better, better to just stay in a ina
demographic and work that demographic and learn that language. And, you know, we learned the freedom
movement by going to Freedom Fest we learned a lot about libertarian and Austrian economics and people who are
conservative that were savers that were prone to be interested in something other than Wall Street that would
resonate with our mission to get out of Wall Street. So we spent years learning that demographic. Then we started
attending the New Orleans investment conference, and we spent years learning the metals and mining demographic.
And so we already knew the real estate demographic. And now there's verticals, you know, there's there's within the
residential space. So you know, I've attended Brad's events and | have a good feeling for how multifamily investors
think I've been to Jean greenhouse thing. Many times | understand how residential assisted living investors think both
are operational, but the residential assisted living is even more operational. So those people need more help, | can
add value because I'm, | have business chops. And so if | share business expertise with them, that resonates with
them, there's less business involved, but property management, pretty important, you know, in, in apartments, maybe
due diligence or market analysis, understanding the demographic of working class people and jobs and things that
affect them. So | can find ways to take what I'm interested in add value. But | kind of went off on a little bit of a
tangent there. But coming back to the time blocking, | think time block, time to create marketing messaging, whether
it's a presentation you're going to give to group of people blog, you're going to write something you want to talk
about if anybody ever six a microphone in your face. Things that you can write a newsletter about. Because all of
those things will. It's just part of your educational process. And then the other part of it is time block time to actually

talk to people one on one, and those are sacred times. Both those activities are sacred times.

58:13

| get a question you talk a lot about

Scott Florida 58:17
that was helpful, by the way. Thanks.
© Russ 58:19

Jo

Yeah, we got one minute. I've already got people in my waiting room for my top of the hour meeting. So | got in
pretty much on time. So let's take this one real quick. John,

58:28

you know, the name Murray Rothbard. Yeah. You know, Hans Hermann hoppy? No. Interesting. Murray was a
professor of mine. | was the only guy to get an A in Mary's class. Wow. And yeah, married we were friends as far as a
professor and student can be hon sermon hoppy was also a contemporary of Mary's Junior contemporary who |
studied under. Just thought that was interesting, because you've mentioned Austrian economics a lot. And those
guys are the world guy came up in

Russ 59:04

Yeah, well, then | think you have something to talk about because a lot of people who follow Austrian economics you
know are guys that follow Peter Schiff. And through us if you raise up to the highest level, you're going to spend time
with Peter Schiff. You're going to get selfies and personal conversations with Peter Schiff. And all sudden you got
something that's going to be very impressive like to me, so I'm friends with Murray Rothbard that means something
to me. Jared Do you know who Murray Rothbard is? Hey there, Jared. Okay, all right. No, | did not. See so. Oh, Jared.
Yeah, Jared here so so knowing Murray Rothbard has zero means zero to him, but it means a lot to me. And this is
what I'm saying when you know your demographic. And you know the avatar, like you say okay, people who are into
Austrian economics are going to understand why they want to hedge against inflation in today's environment. Why
realistic? They make sense while using debt to get in to do it make sense? They just don't know how, right, Austin, you
can pivot off that whole thing. Jared doesn’t know that yet. So if he wants to go down that path, he’s got some
learning to do, but you're already there. That's what | talked about. Take what you know, think about what you're
interested in, and then think about your avatar and look at ways to build relationships with people based on

common interests, common understanding, and then put things in the conversation as | just did, that the right person
like you, John, as soon as | said the word Austrian, it triggered you. Now you know something about me, you didn't
know | just painted a picture about myself just by dropping a word. And | know something about you just because of
what you just said. That's the way it works. Hey, guys, | need to wrap it up. Because | got seven people in my waiting
room. It’s always better if you have questions. | talked a lot because you didn't come with a bunch of questions. And |
wanted to make sure we you know, we had stuff hopefully you get your money's worth. But but but take some time
and think about your questions before you come in and get them to me and then that way we can, we can be more
on target with with handling your stuff. And then when | open it up, you know, make sure that you're the first one to
raise your hands and ask your question so that whatever you came wanting to get done gets handled. Okay. We'll
call that a wrap. You guys thanks a lot. Have a great day.
that are interesting. And | keep a journal and make notes. And it’s all extremely interesting. And probably 1/10 of 1%
of the things | think of actually make it into a radio show or a presentation. So there's a whole lot of processing that
I've done that | think some people might be interested in. And if people are reading the same book, there's a whole
bunch of processing going on in their heads that | probably would be interested in. So | thought about this idea of
creating a Book of the Month Club and doing a book study in a little bit different way than we do it in inner circle,
which is you read the book, we all commit, we're going to get it read in one month. So we announced the book on
the first and on the 30th. We're going to have a meeting. And that meeting is going to be where we're going to talk
about, you know, our biggest aha epiphany takeaway, the biggest thing that we thought was important in the book,
anything in the book that we vehemently disagreed with, and why. What our takeaways were in terms of actionable
intelligence, what are you going to do with what you just learned? How is it going to make a difference in the real
world in your real life, and then might even create some type of a book study format, so that people can submit book
studies kind of the way you set up a Facebook profile. And when you bounce from study, to study to study or book to
book to book, the content looks exactly the same. So you you kind of they've answered the same questions and
you're getting that information. And, you know, that's gonna be for people who are aggressive, voracious readers like
me. But it gives me a chance to build a community around a common activity. And part of that is just growing out of
the fact that I'm single for the first time in my life, and | don't have much of a social life and | like to work but | also
realize | need to have human connection. And I'm just, you know, I'm probably not going to go take up knitting or you
know, so | need to find things that are going to capture my interest and put me in relationships with the kind of
people | want to be around not not quite an appointment Life Where I'm ready to go back to church every Sunday,
so | decided this might be a way for me to do it | mean, | love these calls, this is important for me. But | may end up
doing that live, | may end up starting some type of a meetup group just to do that locally. So | can actually go get
together with people in the real world in my community. So that's an idea. And | think that, you know, if you think
about your, if you think about what you have to work with, and pivot around your interests, ask yourself, How can |
get the right people together and spend time with them? You know, with the Firearms Training, that’s what | saw, |
saw an opportunity to offer some every, you know, people something that would would gather the right people, and |
would get a chance to spend quality time with them. It's like, wow, it doesn't have that much to do with investing. No,
but after having taken a few classes and looking around, | thought, you know, the people who are interested this are
the right people. So I'm going to try to find a way to host meetups where | can spend time with those people. And of
course, you know that that’s working, and I've done it in such a way that | can actually get people to bring friends.
And so the recruiting is actually pretty simple for me. And, you know, and of course, I've extended all of that to you.
So think about the things that you have to work with. And right now, | mean, there's a lot of chaos in the
marketplace. And there are people who want to get together with other people and study the issues and talk about
what's going on. And, you know, if you cast with a wide net, and then are going to talk about a narrow topic, be
ready to have some haters. But if you lead with the right bait, so when people come, you know, they're already with
you, right, like, nobody's gonna come to a firearms training class that is just completely anti gun, pacifist. You know,
even though you make the argument gun safety, | mean, if they never touched a gun, or saw a gun the rest of their
life, they wouldn't want anything to do with it. And they're free to have their opinion, but they're probably not going
to come. So you know, it is you can tell what it is. So | wouldn't bait and switch anybody or you'll end up with a, you
know, some, some negativity in a room that you're trying to keep positive. But think about, think about ways you can
do that. Think about ways that you can rally people together around something that you're interested in, instead of
going in the front door and making it about investing. And you know, overtly part of a sales funnel that is obvious
from the very beginning. Don't worry so much about your agenda. Just worry about making friends. Because if you
think about it, when you get into this business, the first people you go talk to are your friends and family. Well, you
didn't create those relationships, especially your friendships. Excuse me, based around investing in syndication
because you weren't doing it. You form those relationships around church around you know, your kids around going
to the gym, around, you know, your neighborhood, because you happen to live in the same proximity however you
make your friends, just keep doing more of that unless you find out that the pond of friends you swim with and the
the place you're in are not the kind of people you want to be around, well, then you're going to have to change you're
gonna have to pick up some new hobbies and habits. Ryan Gibson heard me talk about this once in a presentation.
And he belonged to | think Planet Fitness for $10 a month. And he heard what | said and he went and joined some
capital club or some high end ritzy gym for 10 times the price. But guess what he met the right people. Because the
had a big local community, I'm not plugged into a community like that. And not everybody in that demographic is
going to be minded the way I'm minded but if | build a group very specifically, in my community, around that activity,
you know, | can find one to join, | find it, it's usually easier to start one, that way, I'm in control, I'm a little bit of a
control freak. But you have to have the chops to do that. Right. | mean, obviously, I'm not afraid to be in the front of
the room, I'm not afraid to approach people, I'm not afraid to carry a conversation. If a bunch of people show up on
a call and don't have anything to talk about, you guys have already figured out | can fill the whole hour all by myself.
So if you're not that person, you don't have to be then you you may want to join something that exists or partner with
somebody, or you spend a lot more time prepping so that you can make sure that if you end up having to carry
today, you can carry it. But yeah, | mean, you know, obviously you start with people, you know, that's the easiest
place. And | think even sub sorting that | start with people | know that are influencers, because if | influence that one
person, they can invite 10. And that'll go quicker for me. | may look for business owners or people that | don't know,
but that | think have influence that | can find a way to get into relationship with like, for example, in my case, locally,
a new gun club opened up. And so | went into the gun club and | bought the highest level membership, | bought a
VIP membership. | wanted to make sure hey, you know, this is who | am. And | signed up and || pay them a recurring
thing. So I'm a valuable customer to them more more valuable than the schmo that just comes in to shoot a few
rounds and goes home and comes back everyone. So | mean, | don't go in that often. But it doesn't matter. My
money comes in regularly. Okay. And so when | walk in there, they know who | am. And so if | were to go to them and
say, Hey, I'm thinking about putting a group together, they even have a meeting room, | could even do it there and
say, Hey, I'm going to do this and I'm gonna invite people. And it it'll, it'll bring people into the range. And you have a
space. Can | use the space once a month to do this meeting? And oh, by the way, would you post it to your
membership? So I'm probably going to do that. And then if that goes, well, | may do you use the same space for
multiple activities. When Robert and | first started our first investor mentoring club, not syndicators, just regular real
estate investors. We were using a little meeting room at a title company. And we ran there for a long time until we
got so big we needed to rent hotel space, but that's because was free. So you may be able to find relationships like
that the first time we did a big seminar called Real Estate fundamentals for youth. The idea was, we would promote
something for children. And we would teach them about the importance of saving money when they were young, so
that as soon as they got 18, and got a credit card, don't run up the credit card, don't ruin your credit, but go in and
meet with a mortgage person right away and spend two years preparing your credit profile so you can borrow. And
oh, by the way, if your parents don't understand equity share, you know, learn that because they, they'll have the
downpayment, you'll have the credit, and you can start investing right away. Well, we did that at a church. So we got
the space for free. And the church gave it to us, because we were bringing a whole bunch of people to the church,
and they wanted people to come to their campus and see their church. And so they were getting evangelism, if you
will, marketing from their standpoint, to their space, we got free space, they promoted it to their group, and we
worked through the children to get to the parents. And then we worked through the parents to get to other parents
to get other children and all said nothing. So we did it, we had 335 people, it was a big event. There's a lot of little
churches out there that don't even get 335 people to their, to their, their their Sunday service. So it was a win for
everybody, and it cost us nothing. So there's a lot of things you can do like that. The key is you just got to think about
who you're trying to attract what you have to offer. And then make sure that you keep the offer that you offer them.
The main thing doesn't mean you can't move them to what your main thing is, but when they come in their main
thing is their main thing that income and they're to be bait and switched. They didn’t come in there under the
auspices of oh, this is going to be this. But now I’m going to sit here and pitch you my deal or recruit you into my
opportunity. Or there's so many people that play the game that way. That's why these multi level organizations,
these recruiting organizations have a terrible, terrible reputation. Because they'll tell you, Oh, come over for coffee
come over, we'll you know, and then all sudden, it's boom, or people say come over and play cash flow. And I've seen
you know, you're playing cash when they're pitching you on their deal. Right? You don't want to be that way. And |
think that probably goes without saying but | just think it needs to be said. Anyway, so that’s that. So can somebody
read me what's in that chat? Who's that from?

Craig Kamman_ 32:24
about a market, | would be fairly careful. Right? So we talking about an investment thesis, you maybe can be a little
bit more open again, go back? And because that question definitely came up with Mauricio, and he's addressed it,
you know, and when in doubt, run it by run it by your your counsel, and say, Hey, I'm planning on talking about this,
because | want to paint a picture of myself as being an active investor, syndicator. And | want to people to see that
I'm actively out there doing due diligence. So they understand the value that | bring, when | bring them an offering.
But I'm not talking about any specific offering. When do | cross the line from just kind of having a conversation with
my list to conditioning them for a specific offering? | don’t know. That's a legal question. Okay. Okay, good question,
though.

@) Scott Florida 13:43

Yeah, | can chase it that direction. Yeah,

@ Russ 13:47

| think that's what you want to do. But | do like the idea of, you know, when when you're talking about going to
investment conferences, or trainings and things like that, that's super innocuous, it’s clean. Right? If you're talking
about visiting a specific market, that's probably okay. If you're talking about underwriting a specific deal, or not, but
then maybe not. Now, if you're talking about an investment thesis in the context of what's going on in the news, |
think that's probably okay. You know, again, not a lawyer, but, you know, | mean, it’s, it's fair to think about that, you
know, you can make the case for your asset class, you can say, hey, you know, office is empty, and there's a whole lot
more work from home going on. Therefore, home residential real estate seems to be one of the most resilient areas
of real estate to invest in. Okay, well, that's an investment thesis. And you're making your case and maybe you you're
doing that on top of a recent article or an announcement or some statistic or infographic from statistics or
something. That's interesting, adding value to Your list. Good. Anybody else have any comments or questions on this
particular topic? Okay, so | had something | wanted to share, | think I'll just go ahead and do it. Now, before we pivot
in, | already mentioned the Great Depression by Jim records. One of the ideas that came to me at the goals retreat.
A couple of things. One is | just feel like with what's going on, on the tech platforms, irrespective of your politics, at
the end of the day, trusting a third party platform to keep you connected to your investors, and your list your
prospects, | think, is a mistake, Robert, and I've always been very diligent about making sure that in addition to
getting people subscribed to the pop podcast, subscribe to the YouTube channel, we want your email address. And so
we everything we do is designed to try to get your email address, you know, if you like us on Facebook, and follow us
on Facebook, that's interesting, all of those things are designed to give us the right to feed you more stuff until you
finally grab a lead magnet and get on our email list. And now we can really talk to you, we can talk to you fairly
privately, although | even emails are being de platformed these days, who knows. So the idea there is you want to try
to create a lot of reasons for people to get on your list. And so | view these outlets, social media, Facebook, whatever,
YouTube, those are. Those are fishing ponds. So if you end up, you know, booking yourself as a guest or speaking
somewhere or going to a networking meeting, your mission is always to leave the room with contact information and
permission to follow up. And you know, of course, we do that in the digital world. But | do you think that there is a
case to be made for trying to find ways to build physical get togethers, | think people are hungry for it right now. And
even though you think it's kind of antithetical in today's environment, when everybody is supposed to not get
together, the fact of the matter is people want to get together. | mean, we just experienced that those of you that
word, create your future, and people were really, really happy to be out of their cages and having a chance to see
real human beings, and especially when you're inside the room, and you know, the rules where we could do what we
wanted inside the room. And so most of us had our masks off, when we don't want complaint. And people were
happy to feel like they were living in a normal world and not in some, some Twilight Zone video. So think of ways you
can do that. One of the ideas that came to me, | called it the bomb, the Book of the Month brigade. And | may do
that digitally. But | love to read, that's probably no secret. And so because | love to read, | might read three or four or
five books a month. And while I'm reading those books, | read them alone. And | highlight them. And | think of things
JO

need to go that far, most people aren't interested. Because they're not contemplating a deal, you haven't earned
that much of their attention. So it's kind of like guerrilla branding, you're giving them snippets, you're giving them bits
and pieces. And so you've got different outlets, opportunities to do that you have different things that you can, can
point to. So if you go back to the basic levels of brand building, the first one is presentation how you show up. And
that's part of what we're going to manage. Next one is Association. Who are you seeing with who you associated
with that could be individuals or groups, organizations events. Step number three is endorsements, who has nice
things to say about you. Number four is accomplishments, what have you actually done and of course, usually, when
you start out in this business, you're your light on accomplishments. So at some point, you'll get a chance to borrow
some and we talked about the idea of, you know, maybe investing a little bit of money strategically in certain deals.
So you can lay claim, in your case, John, you're a property managers. So you might be able to lend your property
management expertise as an advisor to somebody else who is owning and operating properties as a syndicator, that
you would be able to add legitimate value to you volunteer your time to be an advisor. And in exchange, you get to
be associated with the project. So that's how you build Association.

04:34
I'd be willing to do that. And | wouldn't need to get paid for that shout out a little bit that me?

Russ 04:42

Well, let me just keep going. So then then the next the next thing, obviously, in the list, and this is you know, when |
get up on stage and build your brand, build your network, | say there's two slides that are like the most important
slides in my presentation. This is the first No, this is the second one. The first one is you know who's your target
market? Where do they congregate? Or what do they need? Where do they congregate? who influences them?
Where do the influencers congregate? What are the influencers need, you know, what's my angle, but this one is is
his presentation Association endorsement, accomplishments, and then consistency. And that is just keep showing up,
keeps showing up, keep showing up, keep showing up. You know, if you're publishing publishing regularly, if you're
posting post regularly, if you attend events attend regularly. So one of the reasons we create a real estate fund
Alliance because we knew that syndication, mentor club members would come and go, but we wanted to have a
brand that consistently showed up, so people would attach to the brand. And then any syndication mentor or club
member that came in underneath the brand in any forum, where the branded showed up would get credit for the
tenure. Alright, so coming back to your situation, John is, you know, it kind of drilling down into the specific tactic. It's
pretty simple. You, you look at your own level of expertise, and what you're good at what properties you know, what
markets, you know, and then you know, and | think right now, you're actually hosting a call, right, a community call.
Ask the property manager. So perfect. So people who have property management questions, you know, by their very
nature, going to be the people on that call. And if in that call, you say, hey, if you've got a project going on, tell me
about it. Because if it’s the right kind of project, | may be willing, that way, you're not committing to do it until you're
really committed to do it, or that it meets what you need to do. But | may be willing to serve as an advisor, meaning,
you know, I'd be happy to take your call, answer your questions, help you with your due diligence, vetting of property
managers, or whatever, so that | can be associated, in some cases, hey, if it makes sense, | could be the property
manager, if it makes sense. I'm not, you know, here, kind of pitching for the business. You know, I'm just saying | would
like to be associated with your project. And if | can add value, then it can be a win win. So that's it. Pretty, pretty
simple. Now, you know, you may decide, and we talked about this, this is kind of more on the legal side. But anytime
you sit as an advisor on anybody's board, whether it's informal or formal, depending if it looks like a higher risk deal,
or you're concerned, then you know, you want to make sure that they have an insurance policy that covers, you know,
officers and directors. And then if it's really risky, you may and you're not being compensated, you may ask to be a
additional insured. But most of the time, you don’t have to worry about that. If you're non compensated, it’s kind of
informal situation, but they're putting your name and face on the brochure. And again, I'm not giving you advice on
how to mitigate risk. But and | don't want to muddy the sales and marketing with that, | just want to throw that out. If
affect investment mentality. And as you know, from listening to a stock and having read the stuff that I’ve written
over the years, is that | say, look, it doesn't matter how | feel about it, because people with their hands on the levers
of power, don't call me and ask my opinion. And I'm not trying to persuade anybody. I'm trying to see both sides of
the argument. But here's what I've noticed. The people who who have money to invest are the CEOs, right? | mean,
you know, you look at California, you may love what California does, but apparently Hewlett Packard Tesla and
Oracle don't. And and if you're going to be an investor in a marketplace, and the people who decide where to put
jobs and don't. You got to know how they think, you know, when AOC you know, shamed Amazon, and drove 25,000
jobs out of her district in New York. Well, you know, what, if | was a real estate investor in that district, I'd be upset
about that. | might agree with her reasons for saying it but at the end of the day, bottom bottom line, | had to Be
aware of not how she felt or even how | felt. But how was Amazon going to feel? And Amazon didn't like it and they

pulled the plug. That was bad for her district. Yeah, crikey.

© Craig Kamman 40:14

Okay, another question. This one’s actually about marketing. Great. Yeah, sorry. Referrals are, you know, usually the
key? How do we handle referrals on stuff like this? Do we? | mean, is that established relationship? Can we talk to him

about a deal we're working on? Or do we have to wait till the next cycle?

G) Russ 40:34

Well, so you're really talking about the difference between a, if you're doing a reg B offering, and you have to have a
pre existing relationship, you have to have a pre existing relationship. And again, it’s really more of a legal question,
you have to have a pre existing relationship before you present the offering before you have the offering available. If
you have the offering ready to go, and you meet somebody that you didn't know before, then then the relationship
didn't pre exist the opportunity if you gave birth to the deal in January of 2020, and you met the person in March of
20. The deal came first, you don't have a pre existing pre existing meaning before the offering was born. Okay, so run
that by your counsel. But that's my understanding. So, so you want to build a relationship, you can talk about the
deal. But you're going to have to tell them, hey, | can put you in this deal. You have to wait to the next one.

©) Craig Kamman 41:33

Right? Well, pipeline Il, | guess | wasn't aware, we really got to fill that pipeline, months and months in advance. Well,

again,

© Russ 41:40

I'm gonna go back to build your brand build your network, when | stood on stage and said, the single most important
thing you do and you can start today in this room is build your brand, build your network, do not wait Do not
hesitate, it is the very first and most important thing you do. Because if you wait till you have a deal, you're going to
be running around. And if you build your brand and build your network, and there's a lot of ways to build it, especially
if you're not coming in with a deep, rich database of people, you have pre existing relationships with you know, if you
don't already have that. Now, you know, if you're a realtor, like you are Craig and you have a bunch of clients that
you've done business with your pre existing relationship, now whether or not from a professional positioning, you feel
comfortable, prospecting them, that's a different matter. But you know, but but but from a reg B, at least you have a
pre existing relationship. Of course, if they're accredited, you can do anything you want. That's fine. They're
accredited, but we're talking about non accredited investors. You know, in rugby, and again, I'm not giving you legal
advice. So you know, don't don't take anything | just said to the bank, make sure that you are clear about what kind
of offering you have. And just when you put the offering together, when you're doing all that back and forth with your
attorney, just say, Okay, now just make sure | understand this. | can pitch this to anybody in my database who have
an existing relationship with accredited or non accredited. And if | meet a brand new non accredited person I've
never met before | can still do it because they're accredited. Is that correct? Yeah. Great. | understand. Just make sure
you understand. And then yeah, so so that but like | said, going back, same thing, you every day, every day of the
week, every day of the month, every day of the year, you should be building your brand, building your network,
everything you should do at the foundation of your marketing should be about building your brand, and building
your network. And then that's all marketing. Marketing is talking to people in groups about generic things. Sales is
when you have a one on one conversation with somebody about their individual personal needs, wants desires, goals
and objectives. And as you uncover those, and learn about what they need, and want and where they're trying to go,
you look at what you have to work with. And you say, how can i Is there anything | have, that | can help them with?
Maybe my deal, maybe a deal | know of somebody else may be a provider, maybe an idea of book an idea or quote,
| don't know. But it’s not about me, it’s about them. And then even if you end up not doing any business with them,
but you satisfy their need, that's just part of brand building, because now they like you and trust you more. And
you've shown them that you aren't only in the conversation for this little narrow thing that you have to offer, but it’s a
much bigger world of benefits from being associated with you and you give freely. And of course you build goodwill
with all the people you refer to. The only thing you have to make sure is if you refer an investor to another syndicator
that, you know you have an understanding he is my investor. But you know, they do business with you. That's great.
They can't, you know, compensate you for that directly. But they can reciprocate Right. You know, you may have
equity investments where you're doing value add or ground up development or flipping or whatever, you may have
debt. And some of their investors are going to be interested in what you have. And they're doing something, you
know, they're doing, you know, stabilized income, they're just selling streams of income on stabilized investments.
There's not a big equity pop, there's, you know, it's a long term investment. It’s on the equity side, not the debt side.
And so you say, Okay, well, you so you can form strategic alliances with people that have our, our have offerings that
are that are not competitive with your offering, but who they're they're offering to a comparable demographic. And
then you just carve out an understanding, like when Robert and | got together, he, he brokered real estate, | made
loans, he didn't make loans, and | didn't sell real estate. Great. So let's work together and cultivate investors. And
sometimes they're going to want to do along with me. And sometimes they'll do a loan with their existing loan officer,
sometimes they'll want to buy real estate from you, sometimes they'll buy real estate from somebody else. 100% of
my customers won't be 100% of your customers, but some of mine will and some of yours well, we just have to
remember, you know, who brought us to the dance and honor those relationships and reinforce those relationships.
That's part of it is having that border collie patrol, constantly reinforcing. Okay, I'm not paying attention to the time |

feel like I've been talking for a long time, 12 minutes to go, what else?

Scott Florida 46:34

So can you talk a little bit about early on in the syndication business, the time blocking piece, when it comes to sales
and marketing, and maybe just quick overview of the priorities when you're doing the time blocking for that. So like,

I've got a rough idea of a deal. I've got a number of existing relationships, I've got a huge list of things that I'm trying
to get done on the sales and marketing piece of the puzzle. Talk a little bit about the time blocking, like, what would
you and got a full time job. So if you were gonna set out some time blocking for the sales and marketing piece, what
would that look like?

Russ 47:16

Well, | mean, ultimately, this is a business of talking with people. So if you're going to attend live events, then you're
going to time block when those events occur, you don't really have any choice. If your schedule is constrained, then
you may decide to do what my favorite thing is, which is start something that fits your schedule and sell into that
and bring people into that and make their schedule work around yours. So that's a way to do it. In terms of just your
January 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales
and Marketi...

@ Tue, 10/26 12:19PM © 1:01:36

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, investor, book, deal, question, talk, person, syndicator, relationships, business, conversation, interested, syndication,

build, marketing, investing, demographic, big, offering, pre existing relationship

SPEAKERS

Russ, Craig Kamman, Scott Florida

) Russ 00:17

Alright, hey syndication mentoring club. This is Russ. And we're here for another edition of Ask The mentors and this
is our sales and marketing call. And | think we have a pretty good group of folks here. So I'm excited about that we
have no pre submitted questions. So let me make sure my phone is off. And so | had a couple things | wanted to talk
about, which | will save to give you guys a chance to ask any questions that you have before we kick off. So let's just
start with that. So in no particular order, and | won't call on you just but if you have something that you thought of
that you didn’t pre submit, you know, first come first serve. How can | help you? John?

01:00

JO

Are you first of all? Hi, everybody, Craig, how you doing? And Scott? Um, so my question is relative to someone
starting out, looking to, you know, obviously don't have any deals currently to promote or past deals to tout. So now
you're in a position where people know you with different hats. In my case, they know me as a real estate broker, they
know me as a property manager. So they know me as a real estate guy, but not necessarily a syndicator. So not only
to my current influence base, but also to the world at large without breaking the rules with respect to advertising.
Your thoughts on the best approach to shifting the mind of the audience to ah, this guy is a

© Russ 02:02

syndicator? Yeah. Okay, great question. Good, good. Always throw back to the basic training, you know, you guys will
find that as you advance in your syndication career. When you go back and look at the secrets of successful
syndication, you're going to see that almost everything you needed to know was there. And what happens is you
change as you as you go along. So in this particular case, you've got a couple of situations. One is, it's a positioning
question. And you need to reposition yourself, that's called building your brand. And, you know, the idea is that you
are an artist. And if you can imagine, you're, you're putting your brushstrokes on the canvas, you're putting pieces of
the jigsaw puzzle on the table, you are giving the people around you pieces of the picture, but you're never painting
the complete picture, you may do that at the point of presentation, just to pull it all together for them and remind
them who you are when there's real money at stake. And there's a decision at hand. But in the beginning, you don't
JO

JO

right people were in that room. Now, he was already interested in going to the gym. So he didn't go in there as
somebody like a fish out of water he was already interested in working out, he just decided that he wanted to be ina
room full of a higher quality of demographic. So don't be a phony. But just take whatever range of interests you have,
and try to look for where your interests overlap with interests of your target market. And then focus on seeing how
you can develop some type of activity or participate in some type of activity where there's a high percentage, you'll
meet those people. And then going back to what we were talking about with John earlier, once you're in that space,
make sure you show up and look the part. Make sure that you talk the part, make sure that you put the right pieces
of the puzzle or the right strokes brushstrokes on the canvas so that you don't paint the whole picture. But you give
them little bits and pieces, little insights into who you are and what you do. And in time, if they're curious, they'll say,
Hey, | heard you mention or | noticed this or that. | noticed that you're reading this book, right? | used to do that all
the time. I'd carry these financial books around me. You sit down on an airplane, you sit down next to somebody if
they're the right kind of person. They go | noticed you're reading that book Boom, you're in a conversation. If I'm
reading People Magazine, probably not going to get the conversation | want to get into. So there's a lot of different
ways. But of course, if | if | don’t look the part, like, you know if you've ever seen me on an airplane, | mean, | put on
jeans and I'm comfortable. But | always have on a jacket, | always make sure I'm groomed. | you know, even though |
said, Well, | probably won't see anybody | could be sweats in a hoodie and you know, two days a stubble because it
doesn't matter. But it does matter always on. So be cognizant of that, too. So a little bit of a monologue there. But
that was one of my takeaway, something | think | may do that checks a couple of boxes for me. | want to build local
physical community, | want to be held accountable to reading my books and really thinking through them. And |
want to continue to expand my own personal network.

25:48

How would you go about putting out I'm talking about local in your town? What do you live? Arizona? Where do you

live?

Russ 25:54

Yeah, I'm in Arizona.

2p

Alright, so in your community? How do you put that word out? Just people, you know, already? Or more broadly?

Russ 26:04

Well, | think both. | think you know, you can do like go to like a meetup.com or something like that. You know, | could
go into my contacts in LinkedIn. And and see how many people | already am connected to that are in this
geography. Hold on, | got something a chat. Not sure what that is, | can’t read it. | don't have my right glasses on.
And | don't, I've ordered a new screen to put here in front of me. So | can actually read the things you guys chat to
me, but so far away, | can’t read it. Anyway, yeah. And then And then, you know, obviously working through people
that | know. You know, and that's one of the things that I'm going to be doing. And I'm actually going to do a little bit
more, because | feel like we may be going through some difficult times. And so | personally am interested in being
maybe more prepared than the average bear. And so | want to find other people that would want to be more
prepared than the average bear also, people that | felt like, hey, if | had a problem, you'd come to me, and if you had
a problem, I'd come to you, right, as much as | love you guys, you can't help me if | have a problem here locally, |
need local. And that's a big gap in my personal setup. You know, when | belong to a church, and | was very active, |
personal activity time, you know, there's marketing, which are the things that you're doing to communicate to your
list, you know, maybe sending them emails or, you know, posting on your website, or your social media or whatever,
those are just things that you're doing that are marketing. But | think, arguably, one of the most important things
that we do is just talk to people, | would absolutely time block time when you know that the people you want to talk
to are most likely to be vailable. Could be evenings, could be weekends, depending on their schedules, and start
calling people. And just make it your habit to check in. You know, hey, Joe, it's Scott, haven't talked to you in a while |
was thinking about you, how you doing? What do you think about everything going on in this crazy world? Get
caught up, let them know that you care about them as an individual that the relationship is important. And then you
just have a conversation. And right now you're handed a gift because there's a lot of stuff going on in the news that
you can you know, if you throw up out of current events question, you can gauge where they're at, if they're afraid if
they're bullish, you can get an idea what their political viewpoint is, you may already know, you may develop it
further. It lets you know some of the things you can talk about and feed. It lets you know some of the things you
better not talk about at all. Right? So | just think that's the most important person because activity because every
single person, you know, knows 10 or 20, people you don't know. And the way you get to those people is through
building goodwill and trust so that the person who you're with feel safe with you and understands what you do, you
don't get all that done in one phone call. You get that done in a series of interactions. And today in today's
environment, where it’s harder than ever to get together. We're not gathering as much the way you get into those
impromptu conversations is to force them by picking up the phone and calling people and having a conversation
that has no agenda. Other than Hey, you're my friend. And | care about you and | just want to see how you're doing |
mean, you may not say it without much syrup. But that's, that's the spirit. And then you go where the conversation
takes you. And you know, | mean, | used to do it, | just had a ring binder. And | would just, you know, have the person
to ring binder with alphabetical sheets, and I'd each page, you know, I'd have a head of a contact page, and when |
filled up the first page, then | would go create a file folder, and | would have all the pages in there, and | would just
go through my file folder and pull them out. And | would say, okay, you know, every night I'm gonna spend one hour
making phone calls, | might have one quality conversation on my call four or five people and leave messages. Just
say, Hey, Scott, it’s Russ, just checking in on yet we haven't talked in a long time. And I'm just curious how you're
doing with everything going on in the world, give me a shout. Oh, they call you back or they don't. But | would just, to
me, that's the single most important thing you do you this is a this is a relation, a deep relationship, build business,
building business, you absolutely have to build a rapport and trust with people. And you just do that by picking up
the phone and talking to them. Not trying to sell them anything, not with any type of an agenda. But if you ask an
open ended question, pivoting off of a current event that’s related to something to do with the economy or finances,
the odds that you uncover something that you can pivot off of and drill deeper, either now or in the future, or high.
Now, they may end up wanting to talk about their spiritual journey, they may wind up wanting to talk about their
family life, or what's going on. And you know, but even so, you may find something, you just have to listen. But again,
don't have a big agenda. But take great notes. Take great notes. So you don't even have to have a CRM don't feel
like | can’t do that until | have a CRM, just grab three ring, | here it is just just so you know, I'm not blowing smoke,
three hole binder paper, it's everywhere on every desk, | used to try to carry journals around but then I'm tearing
pages out and trying to scan them | just gave up. So | just carry this everywhere. And | just write on it everywhere.
And then | can put it in a binder wherever it needs to be, | can scan it, if | need to scan it, whatever, right? It just
doesn't seem for whatever reason | just use you, I, | suck at typing. And I'm even worse at this. So | don't, | just | write.
But however you choose to do it, you know. But you definitely want to keep a good database. And then ultimately,
you're going to tag your database you're going to categorize the tags are just just like indexing or checkboxes, you
know, so this person is accredited, this person is interested in cash flow this person, you know, lives in this zip code,
there's just a whole bunch of stuff. And at some point, when your list starts to get big, you query everybody. Now if
you go to the investor registry at investor, the investor registry calm or you go to the real estate guys radio show and
look under Resources, look for investor registry, you'll see a profile, if you click through it, you'll see a profile. And |
would think as a syndicator, everybody would be on it. Because if you're on it, whenever we have a deal come across
our desk that fits your profile will tell you about it by introducing you to the person who has it. But that profile gives
you a lot of ideas about how you could create a profile checklist for the people in your database. And then as you
begin to see that they have investment objectives, you may end up realizing, wow, I've talked to you know, 200

people this last year, and 120 of them are interested in mobile home parks. | wasn't thinking about doing mobile
That's for me, Ross. Okay, so

Russ 32:26

your question

Craig Kamman_ 32:28

may be a little off topic. Foreign investors, Are there restrictions on having foreign investors on real estate
syndication? | know FERPA applies. When you know, you dispose of the property.

Russ 32:40

Yeah. So that's going to be an ask the mentors legal? For Marie Co. Yeah, so this is marketing. So I'm just going to
punt on that one. Yeah, | mean, | could give you an answer, but I’m not sure that it would be good. And | don't want

to muck things up. Is there another one is that is that a follow up from you to people who know you like

Craig Kamman_ 33:01

to comment on just building your network? You know, people are gonna do business, you know, the people who know
you like you and trust you?

Russ 33:09

Yeah. Yeah. And that's what | call the three the three C's or the two C's, you know, originally, it's just they have to
trust your character, your ethics, and they have to trust your competency. In other words, do you know what you're
doing? Those are the two main things you're constantly building in your brand building. You're you're painting a
picture of who you are as an ethical person without touting your own ethics. And you're constantly painting yourself
is somebody that is a committed professional, who's good at what you do, without tooting your own horn. And so it’s
an art form. Scott, you're, you're a pastor, right? Is that right? Yeah. Okay, so so so you know, the, the scripture that
talks about, they'll know you buy your fruits, right? Don't tell them about Jesus, show them Jesus live it, right. The
same thing, right? Don't tell people that you're a successful investor. Just look the part. Act to the part. Talk the part,
let them see it. Let them ask. Don't tell them my opinion, because it lets them collect connect the dots and if they
figure it out on their own, it's real if you say it at sales pitch. So that's just about authenticity. Sincerity. Okay. So |
talked about the Book of the Month brigade. | talked about the Great Depression, you know, as a book, | talked
about the technique of you know, carting books around in strategic places and trying to use them as conversation
starters. Talked about the nuances of painting a picture of who you are fishing in the right ponds, taking things that
you're already interested in building a local community and, and that the number one thing that you're always
wanting to do is get people find a way to communicate people on platforms. You have direct control over, don’t trust
third party platforms. You know, | know Eric Shelley, for example, is built a big Facebook group. | hope that he has
taken the time to get all the email addresses off that platform just in case because that whole group goes away. If
Facebook decides one day, they don't like something he said, you know, and now now we know that that's the way it
works. It's very clear

OF Fey
you're going to use this technique, understand that when you step into that seat, you you, you may be taken on a
little bit of liability. So just think about that. And also, you know, association with a project cuts two ways. If the
project fails, if it's a dog, then potentially some of that gets on you too. But when you do see a successful project
happening, then you can begin to talk about it, you can you know, put it on your LinkedIn, hey, | was associated with
this project, you might post about it, you know, him, I'm proud to have been selected to be on the advisory board or
whatever. Because I'm, I’m associated with this notable project or this notable person. So those are, those are
different techniques you can use. But the concept in broad speak is that you don't have to have a deal. In fact, it's
better if you don't, you should always be building your brand, building your network and building your brand is about
painting a picture of who you are, which presupposes you have a clear, relatively clear vision of who you are. Now,
those of us that just came to the gold's retreat. No, we spent a lot of time on that. But your your business needs to
have a clear vision as well. mission, vision values. And the vision is not just what the business looks like when
operationally or financially when it's hitting on all eight cylinders. But when people look at it, what do they see?

What do they think? How do they feel? When in right now you are your business? So when they look at you, what do
they think, what do they see? How do they feel? And you want to begin to paint that picture. You can do other things,
you can put posts that you are attending an investment conference or you just read a book James record just
announced his latest book, | just got my copy of it. | pre ordered it so as soon as it became available, | got it called
the Great the new Great Depression. Well, James Rickards has a pretty big following. So | also downloaded the audio
book just as soon as it came out and on the flight home from goals. | listened to the first three chapters and now |
have the physical book. You're gonna see me start to talk more about that book. You may decide that you can let
people know hey, | I'm reading this book. And based on what I'm learning, it's affecting my, the philosophy that I'm,
you know, it's you. And I'm not saying you give some specifics. But, you know, based on this, you know, our investment
company is shifting its investment strategy to focus more on this or less on that, or whatever. So what in effect you're
saying is, | have an investment company, but you're not saying, hey, everybody announcement, | have an investment
company, you're sharing something of value in the context of which is that you have an investment company, you're
beginning to, to shift the narrative or paint the picture. Now, some people go, Oh, John, | didn't know when do you
know, and other people won't, but that's okay. It doesn’t matter. Doesn't matter what they do with it. And | could go
on and on and on. But, you know, as | say, all the time, when you have strategy or clarity of vision, strategy and
tactics become evident. And so if you're clear about who you are, and you understand the art, I'll call it of striptease,
you're going to reveal it slowly, you're going to give them pieces of it, you're going to let their imagination work for
them. And you just constantly painting this pictures, I'm attending this conference, I'm reading this book, you might
put up a quote, that has something to do you know what, and you'll, you'll recognize it when you see it. If you have
your head screwed on straight. If you have your focus, right, you'll see it, and then look what other people are doing.
So anyway, that that's a great question. And since we're on the topic, does anybody have any comments or

questions about that particular topic?

© Scott Florida 11:46

We got a thought their question, more than | thought, but, uh huh. So when you're in the beginning stages, you're
looking at multiple deals. And you're kind of going through that process of trying to introduce people to the concept,
letting them know what you're about what you're trying to do. What level can you communicate about the potential

things that you're looking at? Well, that’s

© Russ 12:12

more of a legal question. And | think we've done a video on it with Mauricio, but do the legal q&a. And he can
address it further. But go back and watch it. But the concept is, are you conditioning the market? Hmm. If you're
conditioning them, you know, if you're saying, Hey, |, this is not an offering, but then you're telling them details about
the offering, or making the case for the offering without talking about the offering, then | would say that's a problem.
So the key is, is that it's if you're focused on talking about a specific deal? | would, | would be careful. If you're talking
