JO

night, Jared and | were at dinner, and we're sitting across from somebody who looks at life a little bit differently than
we do. And he was talking, we're listening to him and you're locked down and go, | don't understand. You know, how
somebody that smart can see things that way? Well, you know, I've had some of my best conversations with that
particular guy because he is sharp. | don't agree with me hasn't persuaded me. But boy, he makes me sharp, | gotta
think about it. He's not a lay down, that's for sure. He’s a smart dude, successful investor. And he's a good friend. And
he's a nice guy. And | have no problem hanging around with him, even though we look at the world very differently.
So I'm not saying that, you know, you have to build a basket of investors that only see the world you see politically,
and you're not always going to be in a hyper politicized world, but but that’s the world we're in right now. So you can
either take advantage of it or you can wait till the dust settles and then pick up when it's less controversial. I'm not
saying what you should or shouldn't do. That's up to you. But I'm saying it is an opportunity for those of you that are

willing to go where angels fear to tread, if you will. Alright, so what else?

46:22

| got a quick question down the rabbit hole a little bit. So | don't want to try to do that. But there’s been a couple
things | saw just happened to look at a presentation | didn't buy into what he everything he was saying, but a guy by
the name of Porter Stansberry taught me about the digerati. And you just mentioned when you were talking about,
you know, the stock market these things Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, you know, the Amazon, all these people, which
he refers to as the digital varieties, and a lot of what he was trying to persuade people into what this whole thing
was, you know more about Jay, open your eyes, take a look at what's going on with Bitcoin. And so the fact that all
these companies are now controlling a big part of what's going on out there? Well, obviously, we've seen a whole lot
of that. | mean, | don't know if you've had a chance to look at the social dilemma put out by Netflix, but it’s an
amazing documentary. That is nothing but interviews from people who have worked for all those companies you're
talking about, they had high position CEOs CFOs, the guy who invented the thumbs up for Facebook, and what its
original intent was for and how it's now being used and how it's also causing a lot of the social unrest. They seem to
be feeding that fire. And of course, you know, we've heard most recently about like you said, Twitter, blocking and
Trump and but all of the, the other side of the view getting suppressed by these companies, and yet Mark Zuckerberg
is out there going, | don't have any idea, you know, what you're talking about kind of thing. And so kind of all that
mixed together seems to be, you know, making me wonder if there's these because the other side of is when you hear
Kiyosaki talking about the rich are getting richer, and the poor, are getting poorer, and the middle class is getting
wiped out. Well, you know, this is what Porter Stansberry is talking about is the the it's now become a situation where
these companies, all the ones in that social dilemma, you know, plus more are, you know, becoming so wealthy and
so powerful and so influential that, you know, perhaps that's what's propping and causing back to David's question,
what's causing these crazy stock market numbers when we're 31,000 Dow Jones now, | mean, that's, that’s insane.
But yet, we know how, how does that | guess the question is, how does that play out? You know, as we move forward,
is this going to just all come crashing down on us, but Canada has gotten now too powerful, too big? You know, that's
those are some of the things that I’m pondering. I'm just curious if you had insights, thoughts, or any more
information on that side of

Russ 48:59

things? Well, you know, there's a reason we have antitrust laws, and that is to prevent any single company, any single
entity from becoming too powerful. There are provisions in the law to break up companies that get there for that
exact reason. So those are policy decisions. And, you know, we don't deal in policy other than voting. And you know,
like | said, If you feel disenfranchised from doing that, then the only really way to effectuate policy change is to
practice your own personal policies and evangelize for them. | mean, that’s about all you can do. | do think that with
respect to it, there was something you said in there and | was | was doing my best to listen all the way through. You're

gonna have to prod me one more time, Randy. Sorry. A little brain fade, guys.
Hopefully, you got some good bang for your buck out of that. But next time, come come with articles that you've
read, come with things you want to talk about, submit questions ahead of time, and | think we'll all get a lot more out
of this. Okay. So that's a wrap. Thank you very much. Appreciate you being on. All right. Take care. Bye bye. Thank

you.
these things do trickle down to real estate, and people in the real world are feeling them. And you can say, Well, |
don't want to be political. Okay, but I'm gonna say to you, that there is a big group of disenfranchised people out
there that are doing business with major institutions they feel don't have their back, in fact, are part of the the war
against them. And if you can tap into some of that energy and offer the main street investing in Main Street options,
you might be able to turn all of this, these lemons into some lemonade. But you need to make sure you pick your
markets, carefully pick your projects, carefully pick your financing structures carefully. And then you add in those
rationalizations into your investment thesis. When you're presenting to your investors. Do you run the risk of pissing
some people off? Who don't agree with you? Yeah. And you have to ask yourself, well, do | want to do business with
people that vehemently disagree with me? Maybe Maybe not. Right? You're building a clientele, not just doing a deal.
But for every person, you lose, | think that there's an indication if the Biden votes are correct. If your your your anti
Trump and anti Trump policies, then there’s a whole bunch of people out there that are on fire right now, because
they're going to get the government they've been dreaming up. Personally, I'm not convinced. | think there's enough
evidence out there to at least call into question. | mean, the math just doesn't make sense. How could Trump have
record votes and Biden have record votes? So they came in one in two in all time history. And when you total up the
number of votes, it's more votes than there are voters, or at least a reasonable percentage of voters that would
participate? So maybe everybody's that polarized? | don't know. I'm not trying to polarize anybody. I'm not trying to
tell you what to think. What I'm saying is in all of this volatility, and all of this chaos and all of this polarization, there
are opportunities. And if you alienate some people that you would never want to do business with anyway, and really
attract a bunch of people you wouldn't want to do business with, then you may end up being able to take advantage
of the situation to create a clientele that you're going to enjoy dealing with. That We're going to enjoy dealing with
you and, and then just focus on investment theses and opportunities in markets that are supported by what
everybody in the group believes in. So I'm not saying you do that, I'm just saying | see that right now as an
opportunity. And obviously, once you do that, if you decide to cross that Rubicon, if you will, then you can begin to
talk about the news in a way to attract the people that think the way you think. Now on the radio show, Robert, and |
work really hard to stay fairly neutral. We're trying to cast with a wide net behind closed doors, you get a chance to
talk to me in a bar or one of our events and you kind of get a feel for where I'm coming from. You don't have to agree
with me, that's fine. You know, and | have relationships with people who don't see the world the way | see it. | think
those are really healthy conversations. Because if you get caught in a an echo chamber and all you do is just read
your own press and believe your own stuff. That's what happened in 2008. We were caught in a real estate echo
chamber and people were sounding the alarm, and we couldn't hear him. We refuse to hear them. We put all our
mental energy into refuting them instead of trying to understand what they were saying first right. Stephen Covey
says Seven Habits of Highly Effective People seek first to understand and then be understood. That's That's some
wise counsel right there. Okay, so that's a bit of a monologue from me. Let me go in here to gallery view. And did
anybody come here with something they wanted to ask or talk about? Or for you, | picked off David Kafka from
Billy's. And that's not a zoom background, ladies and gentlemen or gentlemen, since we all have only men, that is the
real deal.

A 26:43
That is, Hey, everyone, Ross, how would you when you try to talk to somebody about diversifying out of the stock
market and investing in real assets? And the stock markets at all time highs? How can you combat that? With what
we see? Or how can we correlate with what we see going on in the news, with with trying to get somebody to, you
know, share and our opinion on you know, it’s a, it's a bubble, but they don't believe that?

@ Russ 27:16

Well, | think that | think that there’s a degree of education that has to happen, and you have to get really, really clear
on it. So um, you know, | used to do this little thing that was pretty easy to do. And | would take two markets, and |
would show a property that was worth $100,000, and then 110, and 120, and 130, and all the way up to whatever,
have in what you're invested? And anytime you're invested in paper, you have counterparty risk. And so the the
insurance company that gives your your annuity is the counterparty your bond issuer is the counterparty so unless
you're invested in government bonds, and | don’t mean municipal bonds, | mean, federal government bonds
denominated in US dollars issued by the person who has the ability to print more dollars to pay you off. Okay, you
don't have to worry in that situation that you're not going to get paid. You only have to worry about what are those
dollars going to be worth when you get them back. That's inflation risk. If you're borrowing a municipal bond, now
you've got risk because municipalities go broke. City city of Stockton went broke Detroit, Michigan, once the richest
city in the world went broke. Now took the years, but they went broke and when they went broke their bondholders
didn't have anything. So the idea is that with a bond, you have a Counterparty. And if that Counterparty fails, you
get nothing for maybe pennies on the dollar. Now, if you invest in mortgage related debt, you have collateral, which
is the property, and you can foreclose. So if you're going to get the income or you're going to get the property, once
you get the property, you can, you can sell it and just settle the debt, you can rent it out and produce income as a
landlord pick up some tax breaks. But you also have some exposure and responsibilities on the equity side, because
you're the landlord, or you can sell it on a carry back and go back to being you know, a debt holder. In other words,
you have a lot more options when you invest in real estate backed debt. And when you do corporate backed debt, or
municipal debt, and the yields are better. So for income producing investors, or income seeking investors who aren't
interested in being landlords, or aren't interested in the capital risk, you can put them on the debt side. Now others
are going to say, Hey, you know, you've got a value add strategy, or you've picked a market that you feel is going to
be a winner in the economic conditions that are going on. | mean, | just cited Seattle being a loser, and Boise being a
winner. Real estate is like that. So you have to break the paradigm that real estate is a commodity, it is not a
commodity. | mean, even in a specific market, it's not a commodity, a three bedroom, two bath house, in any town,
USA, each house is its own animal, depending on its condition, its placement, the seller motivation. You know, what
kind of, you know, orientation it has on the property, how big the lot is, you know, because not all the lots are the
same. | mean, it's just everyone's a unique animal. And so the point of it is that people who are investing in in Wall
Street are dealing in commodities, | mean, not like commodities, like steel, metal, oil, grain, but commodities in that
every piece of paper, there's a whole pile of paper, and they're all extremely uniform. And in real estate, every single
property is unique. And so you begin to show people how investing in Main Street creates a lot of nuances and
opportunities. It's a highly inefficient market, which is the value add that you bring, you go seek the deals and put the
deals together. And then you show people how your investment strategies in addition to the asset class and market
selection, mitigate a lot of the risks that are exposed to in the world they're investing in right now, they may not even
be aware of me, if you look at, say the s&p index, for example, there’s probably a half a dozen companies that
matter. And they move the whole index, tech index, NASDAQ same way. And there's a lot of overexposure to a
handful of stocks, which make it super easy for people who want to manipulate the market to manipulate it, they
only have to trade in those stocks. And the guys that started those companies, or own those stocks or work for those
companies with stock options, and becoming big, big winners, you know, the fangs, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix,
Google, right. So, but the problem is if something goes sideways with those companies, and again, like right now,
bringing it back to the political environment, right, Twitter is hemorrhaging users right now, they cut off the President
of the United States. There's a lot of people that are Trump fanboys that are pissed. And they're canceling ditto for
Facebook. Now, you know, that doesn't mean it’s gonna hurt their business model. | don't know. | don't know. So this
is where you're tapping into emotion. So | digressed a little bit, David, bring me back full circle to your question. Did |
answer it? Or did you want me to? Since we're on that topic, does anybody want to kind of tag on to that anybody
have additional comments or questions, since we're small enough to be a discussion group? Okay,

@) Jarrid Cavanaugh 39:17

| guess | always just base it off how much time | have. And if | don't have a lot of time to talk to the investor, whoever
I'm speaking with, and | go with simple things. | like to point out the Buffett indicator a lot. And then the big thing
that | really like to point out about stocks versus real estate is levers of control. And the way | kind of explain that is,
you know, like take COVID for instance, say you own an apartment building and rent start coming in late, what are
all the things as a property owner that you can do to actually affect that investment, as opposed to when | pull up
leadership. And all you really have to do is pay attention to a few thought leaders, that's all | did. And then start
listening to what they're saying, and then start drilling down into why they're saying it and why they believe it. And
especially investigating some of the CounterPoint so that you understand the flip side of the argument, you don't just
buy and parrot what people say. But you process it and try to figure it out. And that just takes time. But if you'll do it,
you become something very unique. And in my estimation, valuable in the marketplace, people will read the stuff you
write, they will want to talk with you when you call, they will want to hear your opinion. And you'll find that when you
get to that place that when there is volatility in the new cycle, that it actually is advantageous for you because
people are even more eager to hear what the thought leaders think. So | encourage you listen to a lot of podcasts,
read a lot of books, spend time really thinking and if all you get out of it is just making better strategic investment
decisions and not being blindsided by macro factors that are on the horizon that you don't see coming because your
nose to the grindstone. It'll serve you well. But from a marketing perspective, if you learn to turn turn those into
conversations, talking points, study groups. There's a lot of different ways we talked about that on our inner circle call
one of the things that came up for me at the goals retreat, as | was thinking about my go forward plan, you know,
after my wife died in December of 2019, | just took the advice that everybody gave, which was don’t make any major
decisions for a year while I'm at the end of that year, and so | went into this year’s goals retreat thinking, Okay, you
know, what, what major changes do | want to make? And, and one of them is | need to do better at maintaining my
train of thought, because | just forgot where | was going. But | think that i think that you know, you want to you want
to make sure that you're you're you're you're thinking and acting strategically when the world changes, and the world
is changing quite a bit. Right now. We have a completely different political regime in the United States coming in. If
there is a large enough group and |'m talking, you know, absent Biden's collection of votes, the Trump voters are the
largest collection of voters in history. Which means there's a whole lot of disenfranchised people out there now you
may or may not agree with them, but they tend to be small business people they tend to be savers they tend to be
people who | think would maybe make good investors | don't you know, again, it's up to you You shouldn't do
business with people you don't care for, don't want to spend time with but there's a big opportunity right now and |
think some of those people are pretty upset about the big institutions. You know, you've heard me rail about Wall
Street | think that that's that's a button you can push. Because if people feel like they've been disenfranchised from
their, their political vote, and | think there's a lot of people out there that feel that way right now. Then the only other
way to vote is with their pocketbook. And if you can show people that Main Street investing in Main Street, D funds,
the people that are taking away their freedom and again, you may or may not agree with that. I'm not saying that
you go promote something you disagree with. All I'm saying is that there is some really strong emotions in the
marketplace right now that | believe syndicators can tap into, if you do it carefully. And of course, if you if you're in
that camp and you you believe those things, then it should be fairly easy, because you're going to understand the
way they feel you're really going to be able to relate. But but there's definitely going to be a very, you know,
substantial shift in direction. In terms of versing many of the Trump policies, or attempting to changing the rules of
the game, | think the spending These are people that believe in modern monetary theory, I've been reading
Stephanie Kelton book, the deficit myth. person, | don't agree with her. But | wanted to understand her train of
thought. So | read two books of one, Judy Shelton, who you may or may not be familiar with. But she is a sound
money advocate that Donald Trump nominated once for the Fed and was rejected. And he just nominated in her a
gun, again, in his kind of lame duck duck session. | mean, he did it actually after November 3. So he’s been very
active. Whether she gets confirmed or not, | don't know. But that is that’s just representing kind of the mentality of
where the Trump administration was. Whereas the Biden administration is probably going to be a lot more along the
lines of, we can print as much as we want deficits don’t matter. And, you know, you have to decide if you agree or
disagree with that. But, you know, these policies, as much as we hate to be political, do affect financial markets, they
do affect credit markets, they do affect interest rates, they do affect employment policies are what's shutting down
certain industries, targeting certain industries and favoring others. And, and so | don't know that it’s going to be
possible to avoid at least thinking about politics going forward. So it may be that and certainly, you know, you might
be able to avoid talking about them to a degree, but you're going to have to make decisions based on what's going
on in the macro, because it is going to affect geographic markets. California, New York, hemorrhaging people right
now, that's having an impact. | read a study the other day, and Randy, | mean, you're on the call, it said that rents in,
in Washington State, Seattle, in particular had dropped 22%. And they had gone up 10%, in Boise, Idaho, well, you
don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out what's happening. And so these are things that are happening. So
components in that that are really important. Number one is you've got to you've got to convince them that the that
the economic conditions would warrant the change, right? You have to create some underlying, justify justification for
why what you're doing makes sense. You have to have an investment thesis based on current events. If you've done
that, then current events actually are going to reinforce if you've guessed, right, your investment thesis and you have
something to talk to people about. And of course, the second thing is it's got to disturb people enough about their
current situation, that they realize that what they're in is at risk. So a couple of things that we talk about all the time
are counterparty risk, and counterparty risk is One thing that you want to pay attention to and understand if it exists
in your deal, and how it affects it. And so that’s important. You know, obviously when you sign a lease your
Counterparty is the tenant, if the tenant doesn't pay, you have a risk. So your benefit is dependent upon the
counterparty performing. There's obviously currency risk, gold was up 25% against the dollar or the proper way to
look at it as the Dollar fell 25% against gold. Silver was the top performing commodity last year, you may or may not
know that. So precious metals did pretty well. Now you might say, well, that pales compared to Bitcoin. Well, there's,
you know, you need to know the story behind Bitcoin. And nobody really knows the full story. But you have the
potential First, if you looked at the last stimulus package, you have the potential for a whole bunch of money being
laundered. You have Iran that is been rumored to be using Bitcoin to settle and trade because they're locked out of
the dollar system as part of the sanctions against them. Russia just came out in the news for the first time, is having
more gold than dollars. So they're divesting themselves. So people around the world are divesting themselves at the
dollar of the dollar. At the same time, the United States is printing huge amounts of dollars. Because we need them
because we are growing our debt exponentially spending money all over the place our economy is I'm not gonna say
it's in a shambles. But it's on life support in a lot of ways. And we haven't felt some of the brunt of that yet, my
opinion, because we've been putting putting artificial cash, you know, stimulating the economy, we're also been
drawing down on balance sheets, if you put an eviction moratorium out there, then that takes the burden of
depleting savings from the tenants who don't have any, to the landlords who do. But that depletion can only go on
so long, before those debt markets are going to implode. And last time mortgage debt went bad. That's what
triggered the 2008 financial crisis and the disruption of incomes and the pressure on the on the bond markets is a lot
stronger right now, the risk of default is a lot stronger right now. So in many ways, we're at a very perilous time. So
this isn't meant to be doom and gloom, but you can't deal with the situation until you properly assess it. And if you're
out there talking to people about their money, and they've got a few brain cells, depending on who they're listening
to, they are either aware now or they're going to become aware. And so you can flip all of this into an opportunity if
you've created an investment thesis that is going to take advantage of what's going on. And | think for all of you and
your enlightened self interest, you want to be working on your investment theses based on what's going on. Because
the last thing you want to do is lose your investors money and your money. Because you're you're wrong footed. |
know because I've been wrong footed and I've lost investor money because I've been wrong footed. That's why I'm so
obsessed with paying attention to what's going on and trying to understand it. Now nobody knows. | mean, nobody
really knows. You listen to Peter Schiff, who's been calling the end of the world for quite some time. Well, his
investment thesis is correct, but his timing has been off. And so there's a lot of people that missed out on a lot of
good stuff, because the timing was off. Doesn't make the thesis wrong at some point he'll be right and you can say
well broken clock is right. Well, | don't think he's just guessing. | think he’s got a thesis. And he's got a lot of influence.
If you look at our YouTube channel when we did the COVID-19 series, Peter was by far | mean there was not even a
close second he was 200% above everybody or 2,.000% above everybody else. | think Daniel DiMartino booth came
in at about 47 48,000 views Peters pushing 900,000 and this is from you know, a group of guys that at the time when
we did the show, we only had 6000 subscribers to our YouTube channel. So Peter, Peter drew a crowd and so if you're
looking at your at your business, you know, there's things that are going on in the news that affect your investment
thesis, but that also can affect your marketing. And what | used to do when | would go to when | would go to
financial conferences is | would walk around and | would look at who's pulling a crowd. What what speaker what
topic are people the most interested in? Because that told me a little bit about something it’s sometimes | have to tell
you, | had to put my own personal feelings aside and listen to what What people were actually interested in, you
know, | mean, you look at this election and you, you know, you say, Okay, if you buy it at face value, you have Donald
Trump, who is filling stadiums and having all these spontaneous rallies all over the place, and got more votes in a
second run by, | think, nine or 11 million than he did the first time, which was enough to win. But he’s still lost. Because

somebody who barely campaigned broke the all time record by a ton. You might say, Well, | don't believe that
_)oO

50:00

It was just basically like we say the antitrust thing now right now Google is getting you know, they're getting
slammed by a bunch of antitrust lawsuits from you know, they're basically taking other people’s content and you
know, moving it into their platform and wiping out these other countries. And yet, they don't seem to be making
something. So far, it doesn’t seem like a lot of people are making a lot of ground on this and that these big huge
companies are getting bigger and bigger. | mean, and keeping everything all | know what their play is and propping
up Wall Street, these kinds of things. | remember saying, oh,

Russ 50:35

the stock market being being out of shape. Okay, so there's, there's the thing that ronald reagan created called the
plunge protection team. | mean, that's the, | can’t remember it’s the President's working group or something like that.
So if you're not familiar with it, look it up. But basically what it is it back then it was they took the piece, debit
dividend, right when, when he the Soviet Wall came down, and you know, the Cold War, ostensibly ended, we had
the peace dividend, and the peace dividend meant that all the money that we were spending on war, you know, and
he had a bunch of money going out, Reagan was the first one to run up these enormous deficits. And so we got a big
boom in the 80s, because of deficit soending. And, and part of that was, you know, the first real run, realizing that we
could print unlimited amounts of money, because we had broken from the gold standard under richard nixon in 1971.
Right, so so we broke, we went into recession immediately after the dollar collapse oil went way up, if you're old
enough to remember that or study that | lived through that. We had shortages, it was all the things you would expect
in a currency collapse some of the things | think we may have in our future. So all that happened. Then Volcker came
in and jacked interest rates up to the moon. But we could get away with that, because we were a manufacturing
economy. And we had a strong balance sheet. All that got destroyed in the Reagan administration. And when the
stock market crashed in 1987, Reagan created the President’s Working Group, which everybody affectionately calls
the plunge, plunge protection team, which was an overt effort to manipulate the stock market to put in a bottom.

And so it is indisputable, and quite provable, that the index is manipulated. In order to create a narrative. Many
people view the stock market as a proxy for economic health and Donald Trump's on that list. | mean, when you hear
him talk, he'll talk about how great our economy is doing because of the stock market. Well, a couple years ago,
Venezuela had the highest stock market in the world. And there it was, because their currency was collapsing. So you
have to look around the world and look for other examples and explain to people, you know, so that they
understand. So and then as | said, if you understand how the stock market is valued a small number of positions, a
small number of stocks and indexes, a small number of trades within a stock can manipulate the entire appearance
of the stock market, it’s extremely fragile. Now, if you're in there making money in it, that’s fine. You know, | got a son
who day trades only one stock, and he does very well. But he closes his position almost every day. Right? That day
traders are dead, they're just in and out, they're skimming. But if you're a long term investor, then you have to
understand things like how the market, you know, the comparative analysis, as | was talking about the difference
between technical analysis and fundamental analysis, are these things really driven by income? | mean, how in the
world can anybody look at what's going on economically, with so many businesses shut down with the need for so
much stimulus just to keep people afloat? It's insane, to suggest that our our our businesses are thriving, there are
some businesses that are thriving, because other businesses are going broke, right, we've lost 100,000 restaurants,
most of which are never coming back, that's going to be good for the chains that have access to capital markets
and credit lines and can weather the storm, they're going to come back, they're going to be the winners, all the little
guys are going to get wiped out because, you know, they've got three or four weeks of reserves, and that's it. And you
know, then they get these PPP loans. And if they have to pay them back, and, you know, so there's just, there's a
bunch of stuff that we're kicking down the road. So | think that, you know, you need to be aware when you're
competing for stock market funds, you have to understand the way the stock market really works. And you have to
understand the risks that are associated with it and you have to be capable of explaining them to people in a way

that can withstand them going back to their financial advisor with their concerns. And this is where, you know, like
JO

Ed Turner Bori in our group, you know, was in that seat for a long time. | did that for a little while. And so you know,
when begin to understand that one of the main risks that paper acid investors are exposed to, that nobody ever talks
about, is counterparty risk. And so you know, if the if the, if your acid is only good if the person on the other side of it
performs that's a big risk. Now, rental real estate has that risk. But as | talked about if, if if the tenant defaults, you
can replace them. So it's less risky. If you do a carry back, if you invest in a mortgage, and the borrower defaults, you
have recourse to the asset, which then you have multiple exit strategies. And so you can explain to people not only
the yields better, but you have more options when something goes sideways. So it’s just understanding that that you
have to understand the fundamentals of how your investments work in the context of varying various economic
conditions. if interest rates rise, what happens if interest rates fall, what happens if credit markets collapse, what
happened if labor markets collapse, what happens? You know, if, if, if the dollar value collapses, because of hyper
stimulus, what happens, you have to ask yourself those things, that’s part of your SWOT analysis, in your investment
thesis in looking at your portfolio and your inventory, what you're doing. And then once you kind of have that figured
out, then you have to know how other investments compare to that. So that when you're competing for those dollars,
trying to move them from where they are to you, you know what, you know what bait to fish with, you know how to
disturb somebody, the key to getting somebody to move, you have to upset the homeostasis, you have to upset the
status quo, whatever they're in whatever they're doing, whoever is advising them, that’s where their inertia is, if you
want them to move, you got to disturb them. And the problem is, if you're only doing it a little bit at a time, it's the
proverbial frog in a pot, right, the temperature is going up a little at a time, and by the time they realize they're
cooked, it's too late. And that is happening right now. in the marketplace, my opinion, | think | could make the
argument given enough time that people who are sitting in the stock market enjoying the parade are going to wake
up and realize that they have a lot more exposure than they realize. And so how do you mitigate that risk? Well, that
that's where you have to introduce your investment thesis, your asset class, and really understand the the risks as
well as the potential rewards of whatever you are doing. And you have to do that anyway for your private placement
memorandum. So it's not like you're, it's not like you have to go do this for no reason. | mean, a lot of you only do it
for the ppm, and then you put it away, never think about it. But I'm here to tell you, you take an understanding of the
way various types of investment products and philosophies work, and then you understand what you are doing. And
then you pay attention to the news, which is what this particular session is about, then you can use the news to prod
people to disturb people from where they are and get them to move to you. But you got to be able to make the
argument. And it’s a sophisticated argument. | mean, it takes some time, right? So | don't want you to be intimidated
and think, Oh, | can't do anything until | figured that out, you will learn it by trying. What I'm trying to do is just raise
your awareness that you want to think this way, and then make myself available to you so that as you're out there in
the real world, having conversations, you can come here, we can talk about what you're discovering in the real world.
| don't want to just get on this thing and monologue. | mean, | could, but | don't want to, you know, | want to pivot off
of what you guys are seeing in in the real world. So Randy, I'm not 100% sure | answered your question. Give me a
chance to clean it up if | didn't. And then we'll have to wrap because we're at the top of the hour.

59:09

No, | think that's that's great. | mean, there's just I'm still in that confused state of how we're all this is all a guy where
it's going to all play out, you know, and | don't think any of us can obviously predict that. But | just was curious to

hear your insights or anyone else's on

Russ 59:26

that. So Well, | think the big thing right now is to understand that we're in a very, very fragile environment. And if
you're selling an income producing asset, | think you want to make sure that you really understand where that
income comes from, not just from the tenants, but where do the tenants Get it? And where does the employer of the
tenant get it from? Right? | mean, kind of really understand where you're at, and then ask yourself whatever
geography you're in, from a political a taxation or regulatory point of view, is that more favorable to stability and
January 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Clues in
the News...

@ Sun, 10/10 6:05PM © 1:06:09

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, understand, investment thesis, investing, stock market, world, big, conversations, talk, investors, income, deal,

investment, debt, news, business, money, risk, broke, biden

SPEAKERS

Russ, Jarrid Cavanaugh

Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club This is Russ and we're here doing our Ask the mentors and this one is | guess we've
affectionately called it clues in the news, but it's really about understanding what's going on in the world in terms of
current events, and how to use those events to bring up conversations, make good business decisions. So it is an ask
the mentors, it is not a monologue, | always come prepared with a few things to talk about, but I'm really here to, to
have it to host a discussion. We do have Billy, how about that. So we have three countries represented. We got Billy
from Spain, we got David kaska. From bullies. That's two, we got Luis Horta from Panama. That's three. And then we
got a bunch of us from the United States. That's four. So this is an international discussion. And that is super, super
cool. And especially for Billy who has to keep weird hours to participate in anything with us. So good to see your face
my friend. | still think you're very handsome man, by the way, but | know that that sounds pretty weird. Okay, so
anyway, | really appreciate you guys all being here. So | guess it’s just pretty hard to talk about what's going on in the
world right now without talking about the incredible chaos and uncertainty in the United States election. There are
some people who don't even think the thing is actually formally been decided yet. That, you know, you may or may
not agree with that position. But President Trump has not yet conceded, there are still all kinds of weird things
popping up in the news. Meanwhile, the Biden administration is already coming forward with something that looks
like a $2 trillion stimulus package, which is close to three times as big as the outrageously big $700 billion stimulus
package that Henry Paulson brought forward when the 2008 crisis broke. So Chris martenson, has been telling us for
the longest time that that when you get to the end game, it's exponential. And if you've ever heard him give the
analogy of drop of water in a stadium and then two drops, and then four drops, and then eight drops. When you're |
don't know how many days in, you're up to half. And then the very next sequence overflows the stadium, even though
you're only half full. And if you look at the growth of debt worldwide, but in particular, in the United States, that's
exactly what happened. The Obama administration came in and inherited roughly an $8 trillion dollar debt and
exited with a $16 trillion debt. The Trump administration and just four years is pretty close to 30 trillion. So it's
growing exponentially. And at some point, does it implode? Does it collapse? And then how do investors deal with
that? And so these are all things that, you know, we we can think about, in terms of striking up conversations, the
concept of clues in the news is that it gives you a bridge, if you're paying attention to the news, to stimulate
conversations with with your prospects, because the news is already disturbing them. Right? The basic premise in
sales is that in order to get someone to move and overcome their inertia, in other words, to to, to, to get out of their
rut, and make a change, and that’s what you're trying to convince them to do leave Wall Street, look at alternative
investments, reallocate assets from wherever they are to whatever it is you're doing. And hopefully, there's a couple
right. And then | showed two sets of rents, and | showed one where the rents remained the same. And then |
calculated what the gross rent multiplier would be. And you can see the grm climbing, and | showed another one
where the rents rose equally, so that the gross rent multiplier that | used was 10, because it was really easy to see. So
the property was selling for 10 times gross rent, so a $10,000 a year rental property selling for 100. And then rents
went up to 11,000. And the property went up to 110, and so on. And then | put both of them in front of someone and |
say which one's in a bubble. And a lot of times people didn’t understand. And | would have to explain to them which
ones in a bubble and hopefully you guys know which one it would be right. | mean, it's the one where the income
wasn't going because equity should be driven by income. And so that's true in the stock market as well when price to
earnings ratios are climbing, that means that the value of the stock or the price of the stock is going up but the
earnings are not. So that could be a bubble. The other thing is is that most of the time if people are investing in
individual stocks, then they need to look at the P e you look at stocks that have no income whatsoever, then you're
not investing in income you're only investing in the greater fool the only reason your your your stock has value is
because of the next person willing along coming coming along willing to pay the other one and | believe | covered
this in the peak prosperity webinar and the first version of that is free. You can get that in the resource section of the
library. But | talked about | talked about you know a bubble what what equity is and and that net, you know, first of
all, that it’s based on comparative sampling. So in the stock market, if you have, you know, 100 million shares of
Apple and somebody comes in buys 1000 shares and pays a price. Everybody who owns the all the rest of that Apple
stock think that Apple stock is worth the same price as the last guy that sold it, but it's only a an appraisal based on
a comparative sampling. When someone comes in does an appraisal on your house in your neighborhood. Again, I'm
taking it from the stock market. It, which they are saying, but probably don't understand. They're just seeing the
momentum and they're caught up in it, they want to believe. And then I'm bringing it back to real estate, which they
can kind of understand and say, you know, if you look in your neighborhood and you look at an appraisal, if the
house across the street from you sells for a certain price, then you believe your house is worth that as well. And so
does every single one of your neighbors for a one mile radius, everybody in a similar house based on appraisal
methodology believe their house is worth the same as the one that sold. But in the real world, if everybody put a for
sale sign up, that that value wouldn't really be there, right, we all know that it would be too much supply and not
enough demand. So that type of pricing is based on a comparative sampling. income producing real estate is based
on value by the income generate. So if I've got an apartment building that's 95%, occupied, that's not a minority
sampling, that's a majority. I've got a majority of absorption. And so yeah, tenants come and go. But the reality is, is
that that equity is based on the production of income. And so getting getting people to understand the difference
between fundamental valuation in stocks, which is driven by the production of income, and technical analysis, or just
price action, getting them to understand what a bubble is. And it's the same thing | just got done talking about two
pieces of real estate, one whose value is going up based on rising rents and a market where values are going up. But
rents aren't going up. In other words, people are bidding more for the same income. What do you call that falling
cap rates? Okay, well, where did where the cap rates come from the cost of capital, right and investor can only
borrow and then turn around and invest at a profit. If | can borrow at three and invest at six, | make a profit, right?
Well, the problem is, is if the way the bond market just reacted today to this idea of a $2 trillion stimulus, if interest
rates really were to go up, then what happens to values values fall, because as as as the cap rates go up, it's either
income going up and prices don't, which almost never happens, or it means that prices are coming down. And that's
because the underlying cost of capital, the arbitrage goes away, | can't borrow. If | can't borrow at three, | can't
invest at six, if the cost of capital is six, | can't invest at six, I've got a bid lower so that my yield goes higher. Does
that make sense? Now, if it’s going to take you some practice, to learn how to explain these concepts, but what I’m
here to tell you is once you begin to do that you sound smarter, because you will be then their financial advisors,
because their financial advisors can't talk about things like counterparty risk. For example, if you ask if you if you had
an income producing investment, and you were talking to a prospect, and you said, well, in the income producing
area of your portfolio, what type of investments are you in? And you're probably going to find things like annuities
and bonds. And then you might say, you know, what kind of yield Are you getting? And what kind of real yield Are
you getting? So yield would be nominal yield, or the numerical yield? And real yield? would be the, the the nominal
yield, adjusted for inflation. So, if you've got 2% inflation and you're earning 2%, your real yield is zero. And then say,
what type of risk are you taking now? What is your risk adjusted return? How much risk are you taking for that yield?

And you're gonna find out, they don't even know. And then you have a discussion what what what are the risks you
growth and prosperity or less Remember, it’s not your opinion that matters, you might find you're in the minority. And
yet people who are voting by moving by with their pocketbook are going to tell you that you're in the minority. But
that's where the money's at. And you may decide you want to go there anyway, just based on that. | mean, you know,
right now, if we're going bigger government, which | would say is the probability than places like Washington, DC
and state capitals. Now, Donald Trump was refusing to bail out what he considered to be irresponsible liberal cities
that had spent to the moon and are hurt. Well, | don’t think a Biden administration is going to have that same
philosophy. So there could be a whole bunch of money, he's already come out and said, Hey, we want to help small
businesses, except for white small businesses. | mean, he said, we want we want to focus on, you know, every minority
there is, and they're going to get preferential treatment. Right? You may agree or disagree with that, it doesn't
matter. Is it the people who have their hands on the levers of power, and right now there's not a lot of impediments?
Right? | think one of the safest places for Americans to be is when there's gridlock in DC, because they can only do a
little bit of damage at a time and we have time to pivot off of it. If either party gets total control, they go hard ina
direction, and everything changes. And, you know, you may agree with the direction they're going. But the fact is, is
still everything is changing at a rapid pace. And it's hard to adjust to in the real world. And one of the disadvantages
that we have as real estate investors is that our investments take time. | mean, you know, you can't day trade in and
out of a position to insulate yourself, you know, you've got to get your investment thesis, right, you got to be looking
down the horizon for however long, you know, it, you know, if you're doing a, like a, like a value, add on an apartment
flip, you know, you might be in that property for three to five years, you better get that market, right? You better
understand you better get your financing, right, you know, understand what's going on. If you're flipping a house, and
you're going to be in and out in 60 days, well, maybe that’s a little bit different. But not like day trading stocks, not
like you can liquidate every night and you know, sleep soundly at night, knowing you're sitting in the dollar. And then
again, sitting in the dollar, you'd be like, Oh, | don't know if | want to sit in the dollar. Right? And that's a whole
different thing, right? It's just understanding, because as we've said, on the show, many times health crisis, turns into
economic crisis turns into currency, | mean, turns into financial market crisis, turns into currency crisis. And | think
what most Americans do not know how to deal with is a currency crisis, because we've always had the world’s
reserve currency, the whole world needs it. But little by little, the world is d dollar rising. And that's been going on for
10 years. 11 years since the last financial crisis, and China's been leading that charge along with Russia, these are
major players. These are major players. And so, you know, it’s, you just have to be aware and pay attention. So
anyway, so I'm gonna encourage you pay attention to the news, when we have the this clues in the news, you know,
kind of current events, whatever coming up, bring articles that you want to talk about, bring questions you want to
talk about, look at your investment thesis based on what's going on in the environment, whether we can talk
marketing, how do | talk to people about these things? How do | stimulate interest in my offerings, we can talk about
deals deal structure, philosophy, how do you mitigate risk based on what's going on? How do you even assess risk
based on what's going on? | mean, this is kind of a free for all, it just gives me a chance to talk about all the things
that | spent a lot of time thinking about that don't fit in any other box. But | can tell you from my personal
experience, if you can become fairly conversant in some of this stuff, you'll find you can get into a lot of
conversations with substantial people who will be impressed with your knowledge. Because that's what happens to
me. And I'm no different than any of you except I've been studying my rear end off for over 10 years. And you know,
as Brian Tracy says, if you will study, read an hour a day, in your area of profession, that in 10 years, you'll become a
nationally recognized expert, | can tell you from my personal experience, that's true. Then | read a whole lot more
than an hour a day. So and of course, you know, that’s audio learning, too. | go for a walk every day. | listen. | read
every day, | peruse the news, | have all kinds of alerts, Google alerts that, you know, send me information on key
triggers, key things | want to pay attention to. But, you know, I'm sure if you're like anybody else right now, you may
have a degree of anxiety or concern or maybe your investors have a degree of anxiety or concern. The more you
learn, the more you understand, the more you can create risk mitigation strategies, the less afraid you get and the
more We're willing you are to engage with what's going on instead of trying to hide from it. That gives you the ability
to become a thought leader, in a community, in your network of investors, make your newsletters, your conversations,
however you choose to communicate to your list or prospects, makes you just a little bit more valuable than
everybody else that isn’t willing to put the work in. So thank you for being on this call. And hopefully you'll keep
coming back. Sorry, | talked so much, but no, no pre submitted questions. If you don't give me questions ahead of

time, then I'm going to ramble a little bit because | want to make sure that, you know, we have some content.
my fidelity account, the only thing | can do is sit and watch and maybe pour a double whiskey to get over it because
all the control | have so | kind of Kind of like to start with those basic principles and work investors up to more big
picture things like what Russ was talking about, because that's pretty high level stuff.

Russ 40:09

Yeah, | think if you take a look at your investment, and then you look at other types of investments and create a little
graph with pluses and minuses, you want to understand how your investment thesis and then your specific market
and your specific investment structure. compare to other things that other people have. And when you understand
that, then when you get involved in the conversations, because you've done your homework and prepping, you have
kind of an idea what your strengths and weaknesses are versus what ever they're into what their strengths and
weaknesses are. And you can broaden your ability to get people on board through education, whether that

education is just a conversation, a special report a white paper, you give them a podcast, a video or something you
record, to give to prospects, and it doesn’t you don't have to be a media personality to do it. It's just a way of having
an automated message. So you can say, you know, Hey, take a listen to this, and then I'll call you back, and we can
have a conversation. Right? And that's where those of you that have the opportunity, Billy is becoming a media guy,
he can go back and he can give people, here's an interview | did with some famous person, and we had this really
great conversation, and | think you'll get something out of it, why don’t you take a listen to it, then we'll get together
and talk. Now he's branded himself as a celebrity, an expert, he’s co associated himself with somebody that's got a
bigger brand than him, he’s created a whole bunch of talking points or educational ideas to put in their head that
doesn't take any of his time, because it's leverageable. And then he’s using it to get into as marketing, which allows
him to get into a targeted conversation. And the positioning that he's done by doing that, that way, makes people
think, Wow, this guy, you know, | feel privileged to even be able to have a real conversation with him, because look at
him, he's this guy. So however you choose to do it, but that exercise of understanding how what you do compares to
what other people are doing. Because if all you do i mean if you all you do is go out there and you pitch your deal
features and benefits to the person sees you'll do okay. But there's a whole lot of people that you'll miss. And then
the degree of loyalty, that the strength that you have on that relationship will be blessed, because you haven't
invested that much. You know, if you can imagine your head and their head, your mind and their mind, and you're
going back and forth communicating, the more communication you have, the more tethered you become. If you just
have a little bit of communication, whatever is enough to get them to deal, then you know, somebody else comes
along and offers them a deal and they break away. But if you're continually reinforcing, and then adding people
from your advisory team, you know, your CPA, your lawyer, your whoever, your IRA custodian, and you're reinforcing
and everybody understands, they're part of your border collie control, Border Collie team, then you can begin to work
out where you where you reinforce that relationship, and also the ideas that that that make that relationship work.
And of course, everybody's getting business about it, because you're like a team of doctors, if you will, that are
helping heal and, and strengthen these, these people's finances. And that’s really kind of the mental picture you want
to have of what you're doing. But the point of understanding the news is two Part one is so that you have talking
points that are top of mind because there's news feeds all over the place that are rising, raising things up to to the
height of awareness for people, and then also using them to form your investment thesis, so that you make good
investments. So those are that’s a reason you, you should be paying attention to what's going on in the world, paying
attention to what's going on the news, paying attention to viewpoints that you both agree with and disagree with.
Reading books that have both sides of the argument. You know, Robert Kiyosaki says you stand on the edge, you see
both sides of the argument. Now you may agree with one and not the other, and that's fine. But it’s tough to disagree
with something that you've never even taken the time to consider. You know, | mean, you know, when | was a young
parent, and we were taking our kids to Sunday school all the time, there were two schools of thought among the
parents, isolate the children and feed them only the doctrine you wanted them to know. Or let them get into
conversations with people that didn’t believe the way you believe and then talk through it. My attitude was always
Hey, if if you're interested in truth, truth is truth. And | want to find the truth. And if the truth is in my camp and | want
to find it wherever it is, the other thing is is, you know, like Stephen Covey said, seek first to understand then be
understood. You know, | it sharpens you, you get involved in conversations with people who disagree with the other
doesn't matter what you believe. Right? And it it, you know, what you have to ask yourself is, is why you know, what is
really going on out there in the in the public mind space, and then more importantly, what's going on in the
demographic that you're purporting to serve? Robert and | work really hard to stay relatively neutral, although
anybody that gets around us can kind of get a feeling for where we're leaning. Because we're entrepreneurs, we're
independent business people, we believe in small business, we don't believe in big government, we don't believe in,
you know, collectivism, as as G. Edward Griffin would call it, we like independence, we like entrepreneurship, we like
people being able to be free. The more freedom the better, you know, within within reason, but you know, to us, you
know, the minimum as opposed to as opposed to, you know, maximum. | mean, right now, we're in a situation with an
incoming Biden administration, assuming that he gets seated, and it looks like that’s what's going to happen, he’s
going to have an all blue Congress. Basically, | don't know that it's going to be, you know, like a veto. | mean, they're
all going to be singing out of the same song, but let's just put it that way. And he's already proposing a $2 trillion
stimulus package puts a lot of pressure on the dollar. The bond markets responded that today as we're recording this
on January the 14th. By by selling off, which drove interest rates up. Now, if that trend continues, with all the debt
that's in the system, high interest rates are going to be a problem. If you're fortunate enough to be sitting on a
portfolio full of low fixed interest debt over time, that will become a competitive advantage. You know, if you've been
listening to the show, for any length of time, we've been saying strategically lock in cheap debt, long term lock in
lock, cheap debt long term lock in as much of it as you can early, but you don't necessarily have to deploy it, you
know, use some of these arbitrage techniques to be able to handle the payment and stay fairly liquid. That's what
our upcoming precious equity series is going to be all about the idea that you can take out a couple $100,000 at 4%,
invest half of it at 8% have $100,000, free and clear park that in metal. Now you don't have to worry about currency
fluctuation, you can pivot into any currency you want. You do have a little bit of transaction for friction. But the
fundamentals that have been driving precious metals appear to all be in place, and then some so you know, learning
how to manage money at that level is an important thing. And then you bring ideas, you bring strategies, you bring
news, you bring investment philosophies to your investors, that they're not getting from their current advisors. And so
it's important to pay attention to the news because it gives you clues. But it’s also important to pay attention to the
news because it gives you bridges of talking points into relationships with people. So I've monologue a little bit here.
This is designed to be interactive, but we didn't have any pre submitted questions. But | wanted to talk a little bit
about what | have on my mind coming in how, you know, we've used the news in the show, and | use the news and
conversations all the time. And | think those of you that listen to me know that | think a little bit out of the box, which
means that it makes you kind of a unique commodity for people to get your perspectives, they have to come to you
because you're not parroting things you're hearing someplace else. You know, there's there's original thought that’s
supported by other people's thoughts. So the bridge is what's in common. But the thing that attracts people is what's
unique. And I'm here to tell you it takes time. takes time. It takes a lot of time. A lot of conversations a lot of reading.
Brian Tracy says if you know you read in your area of study or profession every day for an hour for a year, every for 10
years, at the end of 10 years you'll become a nationally known expert. | can tell you that's true because that's what
happened to me. And what drove me was what happened in 2008 and | started really hardcore studying economics
trying to understand what in the hell happened how did a guy like me who worked hard was honest, was | thought
relatively prudent. How did | get destroyed? How did so many smart people get crushed? My father was a high tech
entrepreneur brilliant man started a company took it public multimillionaire October 1987 he lost everything it
destroyed him. Like how could a guy that smart, be that dumb. And the challenges that many people, many of your
prospects that are doctors, lawyers, business owners are super smart in their area of expertise and woefully ignorant
in investing, that’s why they hire Investment Advisors. The problem is most Investment Advisors are basically just
glorified salespeople. And they're, they're parroting talking points that are crafted for them from their, the upper
echelon of their businesses. And those are designed to serve a particular agenda, which is to push push paper assets.
And there really isn't anybody out there doing the same thing for real asset investing. You know, Robert and | are
trying to do that a little bit with what we do with the show. But if you can learn how to understand the street
strategic use of the assets and markets that you're in, and explain that to people from a financial planning kind of
risk mitigation strategy, then you become completely different than everybody out there that's just schlepping deals,
you still have to schlep deals, right, you still got to get deals done. But rather than just raise money deal to deal to
deal deal you, you become, I'm not gonna say a trusted adviser, because that's kind of cliche in the financial services

business. But you become, you become a trusted friend, you become somebody that they look to for thought
