JO

22:59

So Mauricio, as I've been digesting what I'm learning through the group, it really occurs to me that, you know, there's
nothing magic about real estate, an apartment complex is a business. And then you look at a guy like game observe,
and you realize, oh, my gosh, anything and | just want to confirm that. | just got off a micro m&a call before this,
because I'm realizing any business could be a syndication it doesn't have to be a real estate business. Correct. Is that
true? Basically exactly the same. It's just the underlying asset isn't a 200 unit apartment complex. It's a small train

trailer. manufacturing business.

Russ 53:33

Yeah, let's go back. Let’s go back to the secrets of successful syndication, the very opening presentation | do where |
explain what a syndication is. It is, it's, it’s, it's a group of people who come together to do a deal, normally of a
financial nature. They're all mutually interested. That's it. You can syndicate a bit any anything, you can syndicate,
anything, really. And then the question is just whether or not that particular syndication falls within any specific
regulations, not just the raising of the money, but whatever type like if it's a security, you know, the structure is, you
know, if everybody pulls in their joint owners like a T AIC, hey, we all own this yacht. Together, we all get to decide we
all share title. Well, you know, that probably wouldn't be considered a security. If you say, Well, I'm going to own the
odd I'm going to pick the odd I'm going to manage the yacht I’m going to maintain it, you guys will have certain use
rights, but | basically call all the shots I'm the manager. And then if you're going to hold it for profit or whatever, |
mean, at the end of the day, you could say well, you know, if they're counting on me to deliver for them, that would
be considered security. So that's my two cents. What say you, Counselor?

Mauricio 54:53

On a percent | always maybe a little bit repetitive here but one is one thing is raising the money. then the other is
placing the money somewhere, raising the money the same, it's all reg D Reg, a reg s Rikyu. Whatever it is placing
the money with real estate, we don't need a license, | can go buy multifamily building, | don't need a license to go
buy a piece of property in whatever you're buying may require a license. We've already learned that if you're doing a
fund to funds then you need if you're an investment advisor, and you may requires you're buying a security, not an
asset direct raising money to go buy precious metals, for example, you | don’t know | actually have one client who's
thinking about doing it. But | don’t know if you need to have a license under this. What is it, it's the commodities and
commodity and future, whatever exchange | mean, maybe you need a license there, if | want to just go invested in
the stock market for whatever reason, | might need a series seven license, like, it just depends on real estate, it’s very
clean. When you get out of real estate, there might be other licensing requirement. But other than that, you can raise
money. You know, the guys always do a great job of syndicating lunch.

Russ 55:57

That's right. We syndicate a lot of things, we syndicate the summit every year. | mean, they're all syndication. So
what we do. So | think the basic rule of thumb is, when you buy an asset directly, like a piece of real estate, or any
any asset, then it’s probably less likely to be regulated, when you buy a security, which isn't an asset, it’s a claim on
an asset, then you can bet it's probably going to be more heavily regulated when you're not operating as a principal.
But you're operating as as a middleman, it almost certainly is going to be regulated in some way, shape, or form. So
I'm not saying that that's a hard and fast rule. And it's 100% true every single time, but generally speaking, that's
what you're going to find. And so when you're contemplating a deal, and how you're going to structure it, you're
going to have to find out. But you know, when you're doing your back of the napkin estimate of how much brain
damage is this deal going to be depending on how we structure it. And if you have other people in mind how you
JO

It makes sense. | just wasn't, | didn’t realize that an actual partner in the operating entity could not have a role of just

raising money. That's why we do the status. Give them 50% of something else to do.

Russ 24:15

Yeah, that that's why we do these things. Because there are many, many people out there who practice unsafe
syndication. And that you know, our thing is guys, you don't know what you don't know. And common sense does not
rule. So you can't just go by common sense and spirit of the law because they don't make any sense. You just have to
understand the rules. And so to me, when you're setting your deal up, you you identify roles and responsibilities in
your compensation model, and then you show that to your securities attorney and ask them if there's anything wrong
with what you're doing anything problematic, both from a legal perspective in terms of SEC compliance, but
potentially also from a structural side and also from a conflict of interest side, right a perception where somebody
could say, yes, that's technically legal. But you have created a scenario where someone is going to have a both
temptation and opportunity to harm investors because your model is bad. So there are things to consider. And that's
why, you know, you don't want to run around to do one of this. And one of that, and one of this and one of that, if
you're going to build a business, if you're gonna build a company, you kind of pick a niche, you pick a model, and you
kind of work it up to scale, where you're getting a return on all the IP that you had to invest to create it. And then and
then and then you get a return on that, that structure, all that learning that you put in place. And then if you decide
you want to go do another one, you can invest from the profits from the first one into the second one, and your
business will become more profitable over time. As you create the standards to operate on. The only reason in my
mind to change it is if you just absolutely hate the niche you're in, if the market takes the opportunity the niche away,
or you get some whale of an investor or group of people that are interested in doing something different, and you
decide that Shifting gears to take advantage of serving that demographic, or that group is worth your time. So that's
that's less legal advice than business advice, but they do dovetail.

Mauricio 26:15

Let me just one more comment on that. Because, you know, this is all as we like to say you're not like to say just is it’s
all facts and circumstances, right. And so one of the facts that would help you John, in general, would be if that
person who's there who's helping you raise money is really part of your team, your company. Right? The issue that
that's a good fact for you if that if you and two other people, if there’s three of you, that are going out there doing
deals all the time, it's the three of the three principles, that's different from what really happens all the time, which is
people co partner, some ratio may do my first deal with John and I'm the one raising the money. And then | do the
next one with Scott. And then | do one with Ross. And like, in the course of a year, I've done six different syndications
with six different soonsorship groups, that's a different type of fact. So if that will help you, when you're trying to
figure out is that substantial duties, what else they're doing, if they’re part of your company, you're in better shape

than if somebody just hops around, which is what happens a lot. And

27:14

I'm thinking of Yeah, actually building a company with a position that goes from deal to deal to deal, it's not hopping
in and out of bed with people, right,

Mauricio 27:25

that will help you a lot, that'll give you a lot more leeway than then if somebody was just hopping and just was just

doina this one deal with vai And then the next dav thev're anoina ta do with samehodv else hecatise that starts to
and you know, all those losses, they're pretty complex and, you know, different CPAs have different answers. So my
job is to take the information | get from the CPA, and go with whatever your CPA says, I'm not going to go against
what your CPA tells me.

Russ 48:48

And from a practical standpoint, you know, as the organizer of the investment, if your client, if you gave them the
advice to go talk to their CPA, and their CPA says yes, it’s fine, then at the very least, | want to get something in
writing from the client saying that they did that. And that's their understanding. And they are accepting the
consequences of that, that you're not giving them advice, tax advice, and that you're, you're you're just going to give
them you know, what you bargained for, which is the depreciation, schedule, the return or whatever, and the
representation that that isn't being allocated to other investors. So whatever that looks like, and ideally, they have an
opinion letter in their file, which would be awesome if you could get a copy of it from their CPA stating that because
you're not expected as a layperson as a non lawyer or a non CPA, to be able to make those determinations on your
own. So you kind of your Get Out of Jail Free card, if you will, is that you relied upon professional advice in the do
you document that you relied upon professional advice is to have that professional opinion letter in your file. Second
best is to have it in your clients file where if something came up, you would be able to say, because the way it would
happen is IRS probably wouldn't come after you, what would happen is they go after the client, and the client would
come after you saying, Oh, but you said, and then if you ended up in a spat with your client through discovery, you
would at least have a chance of being able to find that letter in their file, obviously, much cleaner if it’s in your file. So
you know, and the main thing is just the effort of trying to put that documentation together, forces them to actually
do the hard work, a lot of times people think they're in grade school, and if they can just trick an advisor by not
telling them the whole story into telling them what they want to hear, then they run with it. The problem is, is you
know, when you when you go to that higher level, and you ask a provider, like a marine to to put something in
writing, as an opinion letter, you're definitely gonna get charged more for it, because you're taking more risk. But it’s
also a lot more solid. So you don't play that card every time. But if the stakes are high, you know, if it’s $100,000,
investor, maybe not. If it's a $2 million, investor, maybe so. Right? It just depends on, on on how much risk you think
you're taking. So Maria, do you want to clean anything up there?

Mauricio 51:29

No, | do the same thing. | usually, you know, ideally want to have something from the CPA directly letting me know
that this is fine. And then if | can’t get that | want to have some sort of a sign off from the client that just understands
that that's not something that I'm so within the scope of my engagement, I'm not making those recommendations.
And you're right, | mean, ultimately, the the the the syndication, CPA, whoever your CPA is going to be preparing the
tax returns and issuing K ones. And if they end up issuing improper K ones and giving more depreciation or more
losses to one party versus another, you know, you want to be covered as well. So because if you know if you promised
a certain depreciation to somebody, and it turns out they were wrong, they got audited and they got a big tax bill,
they're gonna come knocking on your door.

Russ 52:12

Yeah, because they feel like they've they have been hit with real damage. They didn't get what they bargained for.
And trust me, no matter whose fault it is, it will always be your fault. So you want to be prepared for that. Okay, we
got four minutes to go in. So do we have any other questions from ratio? from anybody? Can't see any hands waving
got to you, John.
© Russ 36:28

Okay, so that's the end of our pre submitted questions. And we kind of camped out a little bit on the first part of the

question, because | just think it’s so great. These are both great questions, Scott, by the way, so thanks for submitting
them. Does anybody have any questions that have popped up for them that they'd like to ask reseal? Well, we have

him? Greg

© Craig Kamman 36:52

find my unmute button. | have a question about raising funds from foreign investors. This FIRPTA come into this what

are the pitfalls what are the things to look out for?

© Mauricio 37:06

Um, first of all, | have a kind of do another plug for us. | have a great video on especially my favorite video that I've
ever done. It's on my YouTube channel, which is the the five things | forget what to call, but it’s it has to do with
international investors. It's a great video, | filmed it in New York, it was freezing it was in February. And that was it
was in Times Square. But there's a lot of issues you've got to think about when you're dealing with international
investors. And the one you write reference is not one of them. But the big ones are, you know, probably the big one is,
let me see if | can remember the five number one is there's a specific exemption, I'll go through them really quick. |
don't want to spend unless I'm happy to spend as much time but I'll give you the overview. And then we can figure
out how how much you want to drill down. Number one, there's an exemption specific for international investors,
which is called Regulation S as in Sam reg s. So most of the time we do reg D, or you may have heard reggae, reggae
Plus, there's an exemption called reg S, which is if you're only marketing and only selling outside of the US to non US
persons non US citizens. Think about it, the SEC really doesn't care. What you do to Mexican investors or British
investors, like they're only worried about us person. So that's one thing to think about. Number two, which is probably
the most important one in my mind is is you become a, you really do become kind of an IRS agent, you have a
withholding requirement, when you're sending the money back to the foreigners. So you have to withhold 30% of the
monies that you're sending back, you have to withhold those send them to the Treasury Department with a bunch of
forms. It's just so withholding. So to the extent that the investor ended up owing less than that it’s just upon them to
file a tax return in the US and get a refund. But that'll force them to file it because otherwise there's no incentive for
somebody outside of us to find anything, and you're illegally on the hook for that or could legally be on the hook for
that. So if they don't file their taxes, they didn't, you know, the IRS didn’t get their money, they could potentially come
knocking on your door for that 30%. So that's like the big one. The other issue that always comes up, especially with
Canadian investors, but | know there's other countries as well is some countries just do not recognize our entity
structure. So you may be creating an LLC, for example, a limited liability company, which is very common here in the
US and probably 90% of the syndications are done through LLCs. Well, Canada doesn't know what an LLC is. And
so they default to a corporation if they invest in an LLC, which means they get double taxed. Right? So you just got
to be aware of those things. So there's things you can do to mitigate that. But with Canadians typically just we just
create a buffer entity, which is a limited partnership, and they invest in a limited partnership first and invest through
that. But you know, there's other there’s just so many other entities I'm German logic Mexico has some entities that
don't exist in the US so just be aware of that and just so always encourage your international investors to check with
their CPA in their country. Make sure there’s nothing you know, crazy there. You know, anti money laundering issues
come up. You know, | think if you go through a you know, most of the time you're going to go through it in a medium
Every bank and they're going to do a lot of that. But there’s some easy things you can do, which is there's actually a
list that you can access the people who are on the, on the blacklist or the grey list. So you just want to make sure
you're not fostering anti money laundering. And from a practical standpoint, I've heard quite a few horror stories of
people wiring significant amounts. And first of all, even getting it into the US, sometimes there's an issue, but they
may even wire a substantial amount of money, it hits the US and they'll put a hold on it like the | forget, the rest
probably knows that | don't want to get Russell riled up. But there’s a Financial Crimes Division or something that
they literally can go in there, freeze the money, take the money while they do an investigation. And | have a specific
anecdote involves somebody who literally was closing, you know, on a Monday, and the money came in on Friday.
And they they took it, it was like $5 million. And you know, can you imagine the sweat that they were going on, they
had to go through all the levels of the bank manager, the regional manager, the VP or whatever to finally get that.
So from a practical standpoint, you probably want to have a conversation with your banker, and just let them know,
give him a heads up, hey, look, there's a significant amount of money coming in, what do you need to make sure that
process is smooth? Do you need passport copies, you know, just give them the heads up. So you don't run that risk.
And there's probably another one that | forget about. But the big one is the IRS issue, the 30% withholdings and the
other one is just making sure that the country where the investors are recognized LLCs because you may need to
change the structure of your deal with international investors, most of the time, most of the time, in my experience,
it's usually one or two or three international investors. And in those cases, we just we've spent all the time and the
money creating our docs for the reg D, we just hand them the same docs, we really don't treat them any differently.
There's no real reason to rely on reg s unless they don't fit into your exemption, right. So for example, let's say you're
doing a 506 C deal, right, where you can only accept accredited investors, while there's a couple of investors
overseas that want to invest, but they're non accredited, so they wouldn't be eligible for 506 C, but we could
potentially bring them in under a reg s and so we can use that. But otherwise, again, most people do 506 B and as
long as we don't run into the 35 non accredited, we don't have any issue with advertising, we usually just bring them
in under the reg D docs. But if all of them are overseas, and REG s is something you want to look at, okay.

Russ 42:26

Nice. Okay, so we got 14 minutes left to go on our allotted time. We don't have to use it all. But that’s all we have left.

Does anybody else have any other questions that have popped up, Scott?

Scott Florida 42:39

So just going back to the idea of investments from the 35, is there a minimum investment that you need to that we

need to require from an investor?

Mauricio 42:50

No, but | think Robin Rusev always done a great job of making some strong recommendations of not going too low.
Because there's a psyche, you know, especially if it’s the first time that we're investing, there's a tendency for investors
to invest the minimum, even if they can do more. So if you have a low minimum, like 10, or $25,000, there’s a good
chance, you're gonna get a check for 2010 or $25,000. And so you're just creating more work for yourself. But there's
no legal minimum requirement. If you're so | would recommend not going too low, because you're just creating, you
know, when | say | recommend, I'm just basically telling what Russ and Robert have been saying, one thing, you if you
are going to go that low, one of the things you could do is offer an incentive for them to put in more. So that's a
strategy that | liked quite a bit, we started doing it with the Belize deals, you know, we started throwing in some
personal use component if they put in more than minimum, but you can really do it any way you want. So if you're
going to go low, I'll give you a hypothetical minimum investment is 25,000. But if you invest 100,000, here, all the
other benefits are higher preferred, or maybe even a higher split or you know, whatever preferential treatment you
want to give them. That way, if they have the ability to write a bigger check, they will, because if you don't give them
an incentive, they may just write you that $25,000 check and check you out first, and maybe the next one, I'll put in
more money, so just create an incentive structure for them to put in more. Okay,
going to do 70. And I'll have entity a and I'll have entity B. But it’s basically the same deal, the same ownership. So
why don't you just go ahead and let everybody know that the obvious work arounds don't work because they're
obvious?

© Mauricio 12:39

Well, let me just go back even more general, there’s actually a general rule that says if you're trying to do something
with the obvious intent of getting around a particular securities laws, I'm going to throw that out just in general. But
when it comes to the non accredited investors, if somebody creates, let's let's give the example | think, where you're
going, if somebody creates an LLC and puts a bunch of investors in there, you don't just count the LLC is one
investor, right? So if somebody comes in and brings in an LLC with 10, investors and all 10 happens to be non
accredited, the law actually looks through those entities that kind of pierces through with it, whether it's binoculars
or it’s shades, and it counts all 10 or 15, or 20 of those investors inside the LLC, not just the one. So you've got to be
careful. When you're accepting monies from investors who are LLC, it's really important to in your questionnaire that
you send out understand how many members are in that LLC, and of those members, how many are non accredited,
because you need to count those against your 35. The other issue that, of course, pops up, which isn't huge, it's not
your issue. But if somebody is putting together an LLC with 10 or 15 people, it begs the question, are they acting as
an investment advisor? Should Is it their fund to funds for them? Are they are they you know, following the rules up
there, it's not your issue. As long as you're not paying them extra compensation, obviously, then it becomes your
issue. But | think that's where you're going, you do look through that. And then of course, the other one. The other
concept that comes in is the integration rules, which is you can't set up like you get to your 35. And you're like, Well,
I'm at my 35 Let me shut down this LLC. Let me create a new LLC. And we'll just make that a co owner of the
property. And so now you have two LLC, almost like tenants in common, but essentially not essentially, it is the same
deal. They're going to integrate those because you're just trying to get around the 35. And they'll just count those as
one and now you're at 70. So you've already blown through it.

© Russ 14:32

That was exactly the point | was making. And I’m doing that because everybody or a lot of people because we're
creative. We tend to feel like okay, we got the rules. And now we make our own decisions about how to circumvent
those rules. And | just want to encourage everybody, just take the rules at face value based on what your counsel tells
you. If you decide that you want to try and get creative, then that's a brainstorming session you have and they'll tell
you Whether it’s just right over the line, and you've crossed from white into black, or if you're found this little gray
area where depending on, you know, their comfort zone and their experience and their willingness to sign on the
dotted line and be a part of the transaction, there may be a little bit of a gray area is precise as law should be. The
reason we have judges and interpretations of law is because there's always gray, and entrepreneurs always pushing
that gray area. But the obvious low hanging fruit easy work arounds, usually all those doors are sealed off. So if
you're going to try something creative, you definitely want good counsel involved and take your time to do the
homework because there's no reason to try to circumvent these rules to get a deal done, if it's going to cost you your
entire business. It's not worth it. Okay, so I'll end there. And John, let's, let's take it to you. And then we'll come back

to Scott second question.

A 16:01
So, hi, everybody, some other questions came up, based on what you said. So I've got a few things | was gonna ask

you about if you had any updates on that finder, was using that word, but that's a good word that finder anything
eminent or anything? No,
administration, there's someone out there bird dog and deals, there’s someone doing the analysis, and there's

someone raising the money. Why can't that money, person, that's their expertise. But that’s all they're doing. They're
not doing anything else. Why can't they be a principal in the deal?

© Mauricio 19:39

JO

O
O)

They can be a principal the deal, there’s no problem there. The problem is, let's give you another example. You
Everything you said was great. And then you have well not Maria, because that's not a good example. Now Russ, you
bring Russ on true team who's just going to do the legal. Why can't Russ be the lawyer in the group The answer is
because he needs a legal license. He’s not, he doesn’t have a license to practice law, he can't do that. Because he
needs to have a license. So in this case, if you have one person that’s just there to raise the money that requires a
license, | mean, it's that simple. You need a broker dealer license to do that function. That's what if I'm there

20:21

to raise the money and type the letters and lick the stamps, then it's okay.

Mauricio 20:28

Then the rule though the exemption and if you guys haven't checked out my little plug there for the e book, The Five

things every syndicator must know to stay out of jail, you can find that at the real estate guys library, and just just get

Russ 20:41

a jail jail at real estate guys jail in

Mauricio 20:44

jail, it really is. | happen to remember that. Yeah, chapter three, | think it is, the way you get your exemption in order
for that person to be okay. Requires I'll give you the Cliff Notes version number one, they cannot get compensation
based on transactions, right. So it can't be like I'm paying you you raise a bunch of money, I’m going to give you a
percentage or a bonus, based on that ability to raise the money number one, number two, they have to be doing
substantial duties in the company in the in the issuer and the in what you're doing. So if they're typing up letters,
great, if they're the whatever their role is, they're doing substantial work. And their primary duties needs to be that
substantial work, it can't be raising the money. So it just comes to sort of all these factors you got to put together but
if this person spends 50% of their time or more, just on the capital raising part, you're gonna have an issue there,
because they're, you know, the substantial duties cannot be the raising of the money. So what else are they doing

other than money? That's your substantial duties? Are you spending most of your time doing those substantial duties?

21:47

Okay, that sounds odd to me, because what it seems like
manager of the issuer, and that's where you you get covered under the associated persons part. But that's a huge
distinction, if you do that versus doing a fund of funds, because when you're a fund of funds, you're an investment
advisor. There's no doubt about that. The question is whether you have to register you don't have to You are an
investment advisor, when you're a co sponsor, so you're not an investment advisor, what you potentially could be as
aco sponsor, if all you're doing is bringing in the money, then the issue becomes Are you really acting as a broker, as
you mentioned before, and then so we've got to make sure that we're not, we're not violating the law, not that we're
not buying that we're under the exemption of not having to register as a broker. Because I'm a legitimate co-sponsor,
I've got real duties, I'm doing the thing. And yes, I'm raising money, just like everybody else. It's incidental to my deal.
But I'm not primarily there to raise the capital, because as you know, if you're primarily raising money, now you're
acting as a broker, and you're not, the exemption isn't available to you, because you're not, you're doing primarily
raising capital and receiving most likely transaction based compensation for that race.

Russ 10:44

Okay, so we've got three basic relationships, we've got a four, | mean, you're a principal selling in your own deal, you
are sub syndicating, which means you're functioning as a registered investment advisor, you're a broker dealer, which
means you're simply raising the money to earn a commission like Wall Street does. Or you could be a co sponsor,

which means that you have a material role in the operation, part of which may be fundraising, but it can’t be the
primary function. Is that an accurate summary?

© Mauricio 11:14

100% 100%?

© Russ 11:15

Okay, are there any other relationships that we should be aware of? Or consider?

© Mauricio 11:20

Yeah, | mean, the other one is the Finder, right? You could technically be a finder, which until recently, we haven't
really talked about because it's really difficult to do, it's a really fine line, but with these potential new rules coming
out, which are very exciting. And you know, I've got my eye on that. As soon as it comes out, we'll let everybody know.
But there's going to be this new category where you're not, you're in between the broker and the co sponsor, you're
neither you're kind of in the middle, you're kind of facilitating the transaction, but you're not a broker, but you're not a
co sponsor, or an investment advisor, you're going to become this. They call it the Finder,

Russ 11:53

the matchmaker, kind of like what we do with our investor registry. Right? We don't deal and you know, we don't
represent anybody, we just, you know, we run the bar, we let people get together if they want to hook up that’s on
them. Right, right. Okay. All right. So that's good. And then the last thing | want to ask about this, coming back to the
Scott's original question about 35, non accredited, blah, blah, blah. We all know that when somebody puts a rule in

entrepreneurs being the creative critters that they are trying to find work around. So they say, Well, I'm going to, I'm
© Mauricio 02:00

Yeah, great question. So I'll answer it really quickly, specifically, and then | am going to bring it back a little bit, just
because | think part of the question was, is there a limit? Which is it? Which is a really interesting question, because it
comes up often? So to answer your question directly, the 35 Investor limitation only applies to the non accredited
investors. So you can accept an unlimited amount of accredited investors, subject to what I'm about to tell you, and
limited to 35 non accredited. So that's what that 35 is, most of the time, | don’t think I've ever seen a deal that has 35
non accredited, usually there's a percentage of them are non accredited. But if you do end up with 35, non
accredited, hopefully you're up to 50 6070. Investors as a whole. There’s two other numbers that | want you guys to
just be aware of one’s probably not super important, because | doubt you'll ever get there. But and then the other
one does pop up every so often. So | figured I'd just address it in this question. It’s not really an unlimited amount of
investors, you do have a limitation on investors. And that comes in the big number that comes in first is 2000, which |
doubt you're ever going to get there. But if you hit 2000, anybody that has 2000 investors has an obligation to
register and become public, they have to go public. And that's one of the issues that a lot of these big companies
have a lot of them don't want to go public. But at some point, they're sort of forced to go public at the Facebook's, or
Goldman Sachs or whatever of the world, because they just hit so many investors that they have to they even though
they don't want to. So that's a big number. But you know, it actually got increased, it used to be 500. And then | don't
know how many years ago, it got bumped up to 2000. So that's one number, just to be aware of. The other one that
comes up every so often is this 1OO Number limitation of 100 investors, which is a number that you may hit more
likely to hit than than the 2000. And that has nothing to do with the 506 B exemption. But it has to do with when
you're doing your sort of your fund of funds, or when you really have a passive holding when you're raising money
into sort of a holding company, a passive, basically a passive investment company that invests now in somebody
else's deal. At that point, you have other issues, other headaches to deal with, and one of them is do | have to
register as an investment company under the Investment Companies Act, which is something you absolutely do not
want to do, because that I’m not going to get into it. But that opens up a whole new can of worms if you're
considered an investment company under the Companies Act. And so the easy exemption There is to be a company
that has less than 100 investors. So if you have 100 investor actually 99 investors or less than you have by definition
exempted from having to register as an investment company. When you're doing these fun to fund deals. If you're
just doing a regular syndication, you can have 150 investors, it doesn't matter. It’s only when you're potentially this
passive holding company where you're just investing in other people's deals. So your company itself is not an
operating company. You may have some issues with the Investment Companies Act but that's the only time the 100
when and | definitely have clients who do arrive at that 100 If you do To fund even if it’s specific projects, you might
get to 100 120. And that question has come up, but as long as you're doing it direct syndication, then the 100 doesn't
matter. It's only when you're doing a fund to funds. But on your credit investor, it's 35 non accredited is your limitation
on your specific question.

© Russ 05:18

So I'm gonna, | know John won't says something. But | want to chime in here real quick. So, here, we're talking about
quantity of investors. Right, Mauricio, but what about | thought there was something about $100 million, if you get to
$100 million, then there’s something that applies also, that | think this would be a good spot to discuss.

© Mauricio 05:39

Sure. That also has to do with with when you're doing some of these fund to funds. So when you when you do, let's
just backtrack a little bit, let's do a little quick recap, when you're doing a fund of funds, meaning you're raising
capital into your own syndication, with the intent of investing in somebody else's syndication, you're becoming an LP
investor in somebody else's deal, then you become an investment advisor, right? And so the question becomes, do |
need to register as an investment advisor, usually that happens at the state level, because if it’s at the state level, if
JO

ye ee ee ee te ee ee rere Se eri pe ett ew er Sette Stee Meee Ee Vet ee ow

look a lot more like a broker,

27735

| would think if they were, their role wasn't just to get the check in. But if they were the communications liaison
between the investors, here’s

Mauricio 27:46

an easy way to do it. If there's three of you, then the three of you are co managing and making the decisions on
everything, a third, a third, a third or whatever, 4040 20. But they're having voting rights, their principles, they're, you
know, they're on board, you know, they're on the ENO insurance, they're a legitimate part of the company, it's much
better than somebody hopping around and being the investor relations for this one and investor relations for another
1/3 one.

© Russ 28:10

So, one more thing on this topic. And then we'll kind of move on to the next topic, which | think is also good. But you
know, this is always important, because trying to figure out how you're going to raise money, how you're going to
compensate people that are going to raise money, if it’s not going to be you. And at some point, you know, if you
build your company, right, you're not really doing anything, but sitting on top of it and setting the strategic, you
know, mission vision values and letting people operate it, you know, board level type stuff. And that has to do with
hiring an employee to be investor relations and giving them some type of a commission or bonus program based on
funds raised. Is that a yes? Or no? Uh, maybe is there a way to do it? What's the deal?

© Mauricio 28:49

There's no distinction between me and under this exemption that if you want to google it, it’s just call it a three a four
dash one exemption. But there's no distinction between being you're not the issuer. So you're either the general
partner of the issuer, or you're the manager, the general partner, or you're an employee, it doesn't matter, you've got
to fit within those the same parameters we've talked about. So the employee, you know, can't get transaction based
compensation. You know, that's where you're going to get screwed on that one, because you're trying to pay them a
bonus based on how much money they raise or or get a commission, you would fail the trend, the most important
one, which is transaction based compensation that would make you a broker, irrespective of whether you're an
employee or not.

© Russ 29:25

Okay, but we could pay them based on profit, profit sharing.

© Mauricio 29:30

Sure, as long as Yeah, as long as they don't know. | mean, theoretically, like nobody around. | mean, some but some

people have tried to come up with that, where they'll say, Well, we're basing it on this, but But clearly, like, for

avamn~Ala FAA cian Af HAA AAAI HAA ALL ARALLIEA varall AWviAriehs FAA lArAAr tan ARAL tha lAKFAAr AMAIInE RF MARA AIA
SAUINIVNIS, LIS SIZE UI WIS USUI LIL yuu UCYuIS, Wen, UuvIUUsTy, LIS IULYS! WIS USUI, LIS FULgs! UliuUrie Ur iurisy yuu
need to raise so it’s kind of correlated, but sure if it’s a profit share legitimate profits here that has nothing to do with
how much money they brought in. It’s just how well the company does. That's that’s pretty standard, but how well the
deal does or how well the deal does That's fine. Yeah, as long as it's not tied, then | would expect that same, that
same formula to play across all the deals. Right? So if one deal, it's a little bit different than the other, again, facts

and circumstances may be different. But, | mean,

© Russ 30:12

yeah, the idea, the idea is that the profit sharing, you know, typically is going to, you know, if you're doing cookie
cutter deals, let's say you're doing apartment buildings, and it's a 30% equity raise every single time or it's a 40%,
you know, between leverage and reserves, and all that. And then their profit sharing is, you know, 40% of the profit or
whatever, or 20%, or whatever. So that, you know, obviously, there's, but the point is, is that it provides an incentive
for them to raise the money and get the deal done. And it gives them performance based compensation. But it isn't
indexed to money raised, it also incentivizes them to care about the total operation and not just putting money in the
front door, you know, one of the, one of the problems with like Wall Street is, you know, they don't care, they just put
money in the front end, and their broker dealers, and they get paid, and they can actually make more money by
raising money than they make on making profits. And so if you if you really understand your compensation model,
obviously, it's got to be compliant. And then it also has to properly incentivize the best motives of the people in any
seat. But in this case, we're talking about the fundraising seat. And then, and then once you know that it’s compliant,
it can become an actual selling point, when you're explaining to people how your company is organized and why
everybody is aligned with them, right? Everybody eats out of the same pot, which is profit, we're all profit motivated,
which means Mr. Investor, our folks really don't get the lion's share their compensation until they've delivered for you.
Right, so just trying to get in a little bit of marketing. Okay, so before | abandoned this topic, let me move into gallery
view, based on the conversations that we've had. Does anybody have any questions or comments on this particular
topic? Before we move on to a new question, Scott?

&) Scott Florida 32:05

So just to clarify ratio, you talked about the deal needing to be different. So | guess one of the questions that popped
up in my mind is, so | do a small syndication, it's, you know, million dollar raise, or whatever. And that goes really well.
And | decided | want to do the same thing. And do another, say it's even in the same with the same team and in the
same market, it all matches up. And so it's gonna look a lot alike. But it’s a different deal. That's still doable, even
though they look similar, right?

© Mauricio 32:41

Yeah. | mean, if it if it's a set completely separate property, then that’s not going to be an issue. It's only so people try
and do it with the same property, you know, it’s a huge development deal. And they try and break that up into three
or four different syndications one, maybe bringing in the debt. One is Class A one is Class B. One is, you know,
mezzanine, and those can get all integrated, because it’s basically the same development deals, it’s the same
offering. But in your case, people do that all the time, if you want to go raise a bunch of money to go buy a building,
and then you find the one across the street, and you're like, I'm gonna replicate this model, whatever this the, it's
basically the exact same things, that's a different property. That's, that's not going to get integrated. Okay.

©) Scott Florida 33:18

That entinde anand
Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Legal and Compliance
with Russel...

@ Tue, 10/26 10:24AM @ 58:54

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

deal, money, raising, syndication, investors, people, exemption, llc, question, fund, investor, accredited, issue, syndicator, rules,

cpa, invest, create, buying, license

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Mauricio, Craig Kamman

) Russ 00:17

Hey everybody, it's Russ. And I'm here for the syndication mentoring club, ask the mentors call monthly called
January 2021. With our friend and lawyer, counselor himself, Mr. Mauricio roled. How're you doing?

 ) Mauricio 00:32

Mauricio doing fantastic. Thank you. Good. And

© Russ 00:35

we have a group of folks here and a couple of pre submitted questions from our a student, Scott, Florida, who | keep
wanting to say is in Florida, but | think he’s in Michigan. | probably would rather be in Florida this time of year
anyway, but maybe not. Anyway. So let's go ahead and get this thing kicked off. Scott, we'll take your question first,
because you're here. And then. And then if anybody has any questions, we'll do that we have up to an hour, we don't
have to take an hour. But we won't take any more than an hour. So we'll be done at the top of the hour. So Scott, you
want to ask your question, or do you want me to read it?

®) Scott Florida 01:14

| can ask it. Okay. Yeah. So I'm looking over the 506 B offering. That’s what I'm hoping to do. I'm noticing, at least the
research that | did, was saying you can only have 35 investors in there. And | wasn't sure if that was non accredited
investors? Or if you could have, say 35 non accredited and then say 65 accredited or what? How does that piece of
the puzzle come together? So putting together syndication because one of my goals is to have people that don't
have a lot of money, be able to invest? And then also those that do have a lot? Bring them together to produce a
successful deal?
G) Scott Florida 44:11

that sounds good. The follow up question that's very much related to what you just said. So talking about dividing up
the benefits of the deal. So for example, I've heard just through my listening, that there's ways to offer like the tax
benefits to a certain group of your investors and then maybe the cash flow to another group or somehow splitting up
the deal like you just talked about dividing up the they get a certain they get a different return than some of the
somebody else. How does that work? And is that something that you know, say for example, | want to give | got a
high net worth investors, | want to give them the tax benefits. I've got a low net worth investors, they need the cash
flow. How would something like that work?

© Russ 44:57

So before he answers let me jump in and say Say that anytime you're putting a deal together, the first thing you have
to do is you have to kind of weigh all the meat on the bone. And sometimes the, you know, there's better cuts, right,
you know. So sometimes there's that filleted, it's you know, kind of the inside of the T bone. And then there's the thing
that's on the outside and things like that. So maybe not a perfect analogy, but you get the idea. So that gives you an
idea, which you have to work with. And those are features. And then you have to identify which avatar would get a
benefit from that feature. And then that's just sales 101. Once you decide what you want to try to give somebody or
groups of somebody, then you want to ask yourself, Okay, do | have those groups of somebody in my list? In other
words, is it going to be buddy be hungry for this particular cut? And if you do, then you pick up the phone and call
your attorney and spend real money to try to figure out how do | do that? Okay, because the reason we do this, ask
the mentors is you don't have to spend real money above and beyond your dues to be able to have these what if
scenarios and conversations with resale. But in the real world, every time you do this, it costs you real money. And so,
before you even go there, you want to ask yourself, you know, is it worth? Is it worth the investment? But it's a good
exercise always to understand all of the features and benefits and indexing them back to avatars? Because
ultimately, that’s what you got to do you have to feed your database, something they want to eat. So you're thinking
the right way. But that's just from a practical perspective. And then I'm sure museos answer is either going to be no,
you have to treat everybody the same. Or you have to treat everybody in a group the same. And normally, that's
what we try to go for. It's like, how can we? How can we take and put one group of investors in one category in one
group and another category and assign different benefits? And then all that ratio, take it up on the legal side from
there?

ro ) Mauricio 47:06

Talk to your CPA is my answer, because that’s a CPA question. And I've actually done it both ways. From my
perspective, it's fairly simple, | can structure it. And | think the one you were suggesting, Scott was the, you know,
maybe allocating, the one that comes up a lot is the IRA. So hey, look, the IRAs don't really care about the the tax
benefits and the tax losses, because there's nothing there, even though that's not necessarily true. But so | don't want
to give any, | want to shift all the depreciation and that loss away from the IRA folks, and give it to everybody else,
right. And I've done that, actually. So that from a structural standpoint, that's fairly simple. All | do is, as Russ
mentioned, we do have to treat everyone equally. But we can treat different classes differently. So | can easily create
a separate class where this class of people gets the depreciation this plus people does not, but the CPA will tell you
whether you can do that, from an IRS perspective, I've actually had most of the CPAs will tell me that you cannot do
that, because of the economic risks that are the the risk of economic loss has to has to follow the depreciation. But |
have done it before because | have a CPA that told me it was fine. And I'm not in the business of challenging CPAs.
I'm not a tax professional. So if your CPA tells me that | can do it, I'm happy to go do it. But that's the first person
along with me to have a conversation with to see if, if whatever you're trying to do, it will pass muster under the IRS

rules for their suit. Obviously, as you can imagine the IRS rules, especially when it has to do with bonus depreciation,
© Mauricio 16:22

JO

JO

JO

°
O)

| mean, the big The only thing that’s | don’t remember now, when we we had the main discussion there, the only
concerning thing for me I'm super excited about because if this thing passes anywhere near the foreman hat is such
a game changer for our industry. My only concern is with the change of administration, you know, the SEC
Commissioner resigned. And the new guys come in who's who, what I've read is, even though he's a former Goldman
Sachs guy, he's kind of an enforcer. He likes he’s a regular, he’s a regulator. And so it'll be interesting to see whether
they just do a 180. And even though this has been going on for many, many years, if they decide they don't want to
do it, but we don't get any updates. In terms of when it comes out. I'm expecting it to come out in the second quarter
of this year. And then there's another 60 days or whatever, 75 days, once the final rule comes out before it actually
really becomes official in the Federal Register. So we're probably talking middle of the year at the earliest, | would

say if you're waiting for it.

17:20

Okay, and based on what you were talking about funds and fund deals and such and such, | assume you're talking
for number of investors, | assume you're talking about a per individual deal, not per syndicator. Correct.

17:42

That's correct, per se indicators,

17:45

each with X number, it’s not that aggregate, it's within each offering,

Mauricio 17:51

each offering correct. And you just need to be careful that if you have two different offerings, that they're not similar
enough that the SEC will just combine them into one. That's what we were kind of talking about at the end. So. So
for, like | said, if you have one offering that goes to go buy the property, and you get up to whatever limitation you
have, and then you decide, hey, I'm going to shut that down. | think | don't like frozen up, but I'm going to shut that
down. I'm going to create a new offering that now we're going to own fifth that offers going on 50% of the property
in the original offerings, you know, and the other 50% Those are completely different. If you're if you're buying
multifamily in Oklahoma, you've got there and then you want to do another offering in Florida something else then
obviously they're completely different. You You don't have a limitation that because there's no way those are going to

get integrated. They're completely.

18:40

So with respect to raising capital, as principle, and not running into the issue of you're just raising money, which |
don't exactly know why that's so horrible. | could see if a syndicator goes out and tells the world Hey, bring me
money, and I'll give you a cut. Well, clearly, that’s not what we're allowed to do. But my concept of any business isn't
that there's one guy sitting in the desk doing everything. There’s someone doing ops, there’s someone doing
PrIiMMéb QVUIIUS yyvvuu-

© Russ 33:19

Okay, so anybody else on this particular topic before we move on? Okay, so Scott, you had the other question about
conditioning the market? And once you go ahead and ask it, if you remember it, otherwise, | can read it.

©) Scott Florida 33:36

Yeah. So does conditioning the market apply to people | already have a substantive relationship with? Or Is that
referring to how | build relationships with potential investors before | have an offering in hand? So like, specifically,
I've got friends and | have relationships with people I’ve known for a long time. Can | talk with them about the deals
that I'm looking at? or considering and talk about, you know, how that all is looking? Or is that considered
conditioning the market?

 ) Mauricio 34:05

No, that's 100%. Fine. So conditioning, the market is a form of advertising, right? It's that’s all comes in, right? And so
one of the ways not the only way but the primary way, you show that you did not advertise to a particular person or
individuals is that having that what you mentioned that pre existing substantive relationship. So when you have a
relationship with somebody, you can sit down with them do a presentation, invite them to a webinar, and you can
kind of do all kinds of stuff, because you already have that relationship established. There’s no way somebody could
argue that you are conditioning the market because you've already got that relationship. Where it's a little bit tricky,
is if you're let's, let’s say you're doing social media, or some kind of a podcast or something, then obviously you're
reaching other people that you clearly do not have pre existing relationships with and that's where the issue of
condition the market comes up is when you're doing these public. You know, whether they're Facebook or social
media, or podcasts or ads or whatever. That's when you're reaching people you do not have. And so the act of
putting that on social media, social media seems to be the most popular one, the act of putting it on social media
that could be conditioning the market as a whole. But first of all, you always you picking up, in my opinion, you
picking up the phone, and talking, let's say you have somebody that you know from work, you may not really have a
substantive relationship to you, and you know them, but you don’t know him super well. But you know them, you
picking up the phone and having a one on one warfare when | was talking with them on the phone. You may not
have a pre existing sophistic relationship at that point, but you clearly not you have not advertised or generally
solicited, right, you're doing a one on one makes it really easy. when issues arise when you start blasting to the larger
groups, whether it’s a huge email blast, or it's a huge post on social media, or it’s a podcast broadcast, that's when
the issue comes up. If you're having one on one meetings, honestly, | mean, if you go to a webinar, as you know, a
conference or something and you're having a one on one conversation, it's going to be hard to argue that you've
been advertising or conditioning the market you're having, you know, so that's, that's where that pre existing thing
comes up. It’s one of the ways that you establish that you whatever that communication was, in your case, that
communication is a one on one phone call. But that’s the way one of the ways you establish that communication
was not broadcast it to the world and did not condition the market. Remember the market meaning a marketplace?
You know, more than one? A bunch of people?

© Scott Florida 36:24
Got it. That's very helpful. Thank you.
@ Russ 21:50

John, let me save you a lot of trouble. Okay, the EU laws, as I'm sure you know, don't need to make any sense
whatsoever. They're designed to protect constituencies. Which were a threat to, they're they're designed based on
prejudices from and created by people who've never operated in the real world. So we can we can go back and forth

talking about the philosophy. But but from a strictly legal perspective, if the primary function of someone is raising
money, they need to be licensed.

A 22:30

| got it. So amateurs can raise money. No, professional.

© Russ 22:35

Got it? Yeah. And that's just, you know, we just have to live with that. There’s, you know, what, why 35? Not 38? Why
not? You know, why isn't accredited investor a million net worth? | don't know, why is depreciation 27 and a half years

for residential and 39 and a half for convert? Who knows? Right? A bunch of guys got drunk at a bar in Washington,
DC and threw darts at the board pick weird stuff. Who knows, | don't remember

© Mauricio 23:03

you can cat professionals, they just have to have a license, just like if you were going to go buy the property and get
a real estate agent, they have to be licensed. You can't just have somebody you can just have a receipt to sell you a

piece of property and take a commission, the six 3% or 6%. Commission? I'm not licensed to do that. It's the same
thing.

© Russ 23:18

Yeah, unless you're primarily the principal. Unless you're the primary or the principal. Yeah. That's the thing. So you

know, making somebody a principal, just to get around the idea that they're primarily raising money is what the Lord
does not allow. And | think, just because

© Mauricio 23:35

the minute you start raising money for others, that's the issue. If you're raising money for yourself, that's fine. Or if
you're this associated,

© Russ 23:42

yeah, but others can be your partners in the deal if your only role is to raise the money. And that's the gray area that

we always have a hard time getting a reminder on John's not the first person to feel that way. | felt that way. Like
this makes no sense. Right?

mm 23:56
and this is where the 100 million comes in, if it's if you have less than $100 million of assets under management under
this investment advisory system, you could have, you know, Dave, our good friend, David Brooks a great example,
he's way over the 100 million dollar mark. But not all of that has been fun to fund. In fact, a very small percentage of
that is fun to fund. So we're not quite worried about him yet. But if you're only doing fund to fund and you raise a $20
million fund, and then a $30 million fund, and these are all funds of funds, at some point, you are required to register
as an investment advisor at the federal level, which actually, | think I've been told is actually less onerous than the
state level, to be honest with you. But that's what that 100 million dollar mark happens. There's also another
triggering mechanism at 25 million. So once you get close to 25 million in a fund of funds area, like if you're if you're
doing the sub syndications, then you want to reach out to your securities attorney because there's some filing
requirements that you have to do, there's nothing really on a compliance level. But | think the SEC just wants to know
that you're out there doing this kind of stuff, it's still a state issue. But that is one threshold you've got to be aware of

is that 25 million, but once you get to 100, you have to register, at the federal level, you cannot register at the state

© Russ 07:20

level. So it seems like the law is really looking at you, if you're a principal, if you're an operator, you have a lot more
leeway. But if you're doing the fund to funds, it’s almost like the sister to being a broker, which they you know, when
you're a middleman and so they regulate middleman a lot more than they do principals. Same things true with
collecting referral fees, you know, in real estate, if you're you can collect referral fees from someone who's a principal,
but you can't collect them if the person is operating as an agent. So, okay, well, that's good stuff. So

ro ) Mauricio 07:56

that the distinction there which which we've talked about before, but it's a good reminder is, in our world, in the real
estate guy's world in the syndication, obviously, you can syndicate anything doesn't have to be real estate. But in our
world, when you syndicate real estate, you're you're raising money to buy real estate, right. And that’s a huge
distinction, because even though it's in an entity, but at the end of the day, it’s relating to buying a piece of property.
When you're doing a fund of funds. Remember, you're not buying real estate anymore, you're buying a security, it's
like buying stocks in Apple or Google, you're just buying stock and syndicator no syndicator number one syndicator
number two. And so that's what really triggers this, this other world that we don't usually think about it, because now

you're advising and making representations from the purchase of a security as opposed to purchasing real estate.

© Russ 08:41

So, John, hold on to your question. Hopefully, you're smart guy, and you wrote it down, because | want to explore this
a little bit more. Now this comes to this idea. When we talk about sub syndications, there's different structures. So
there's co sponsoring. And | think we have a guy right now that is doing a deal like that. And that as a co sponsor,
you're considered a principal, | believe, which, how does that change? Or does it change any of this that we're talking
about?

© Mauricio 09:11

It changes a lot i Yeah, it changes big time. Because if you're a co syndicator, or a co sponsor, then you're not an
investment advisor, you're simply partnering with somebody else, or maybe several other people to put a deal
together. And so now you are, you know, the technical term is you're an associated Person of the issuer to get really
technical. So the issuer is your LLC, that's the one that's actually issuing the Securities and accepting the monies. You
as a general partner or anybody associated with that you're not the issue, but you are the general partner or the
think they're going to want to be involved. If you're buying something where you're you're buying a claim on
something else, and not direct ownership. And you think stocks would be direct ownership. But | mean, the reality of
that | tell you something, it's really not versus you know, being on a grant deed, which is direct ownership, that's
something different. So don't think of of title to something to be the same as shares of something shares of
something as a claim on something title is directly owning that something does that make sense? In my mind, again,
not a lawyer not giving you legal legal advice, but just just the idea of kind of having a rule of thumb in your mind's
eye. So we kind of know what you're dealing with. Always, when you get down to the specifics of any deal, you're
going to want to run it by qualified counsel and a good lawyer like Mauricio, if he doesn't really know the answer.
He'll punt. It'll he'll, he'll say, | can’t give you an opinion on that. But | can find someone who can. Okay, so that | think
we're and Maria, I'll give you the last word. If you have anything you want to clean up.

© Mauricio 58:05

Nope. There’s something | totally I’m trying to remember it but no, | think I'm good. | think we've covered quite a nice,
nice array of topics.

& Russ 58:12

Yeah, no, it was good. It was good call. Thanks for participation. Thanks for your great questions. I'm gonna have the
team link to the the jail report how to stay out of jail. So it'll be here on the platform and receive if you want to get us
that YouTube video that you refer to we'll stick it in the platform as well that link to it from from this particular
session. That way people who've heard that can find it quickly. Okay. All right, everybody. Thanks for being on the
call. Really appreciate it. We'll see you next time.
