going to see has to fit. What it is that you know you intend to build, right? So obviously the framers and the
foundation people, the electricians, the plumbing, none of that is going to work if the architect hasn't decided what
the finished product is going to look like. So the infrastructure is designed to support those process maps. So you
start with the process map and you build infrastructure to facilitate your processes. You don't change your processes
to work around whatever crappy infrastructure you happen to have did. | didn't get that right, Stace. Yeah, that's
exactly right. Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, | think that that’s good stuff. | think we're going to call this a wrap, because
we're at the top of the hour, and | got to move on to the next thing, but | think this was a good session, don’t you
think ladies and gentlemen? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, really good. So thanks for being on the call. Thanks for bringing your
questions. In states, of course, thanks for bringing your expertise. | continue to learn from you and it’s impressive. So
thanks to all and we'll look forward to seeing you on the next call. All right, thanks, right. Take care
Let me toss in a little bit here. | hate Google, by the way. You know, | tell Stacy that all the time. But she came in and
she put us on G Suite. And I, | capitulated because | asked her to do a job. And I'm not here to tell her how to do the
job | have to make, you know, | let my preferences be known. And but at the end of the day, you know, what you have
to have the mistakes that | made, is that | had third party vendors, even employees who would come in, and they
would, because the way Gmail is or Google is they require everything to pivot around a Gmail account. And they
were setting up accounts for critical company assets and files and records under their own email, and then they
would depart. And sometimes just through, you know, not being aware, a lot of time could pass if the relationship
ended on bad terms, and then all sudden, I'm being held hostage to our assets. So one of the things that we do is we
set up company G males that are owned and operated by the company, and then all of the critical assets are
managed through those. And so that is just one thing from my own personal experiences, that that's really
important. The other thing is, | think, again, you know, I’m not trying to get political, and not that any of us are doing
anything controversial. But you always run the risk when all of your data is stored in a third party, that you get deep
platformed, or something happens to that third party. You know, | got to the point where with Google and Amazon, |
said, Okay, well, those those guys are probably not going out of business. And then through this political thing, there
was some talk. And you know, it didn't end up happening. But there’s some talk about these companies, because of
their political activism actually getting taken over getting getting getting shut down or somehow taken over, or
broken up as a public utility monopoly. So | think it's a good idea to have some redundancy, you know, you might,
you might have a backup of files from, like, | tend to backup stuff from AWS, we have a lot of stuff on Google. | can't
say, from my standpoint, we haven't gotten to that point as far as real estate guys, and we create a lot of content.
But you know, we don't have a completely cohesive digital asset management strategy, yet. We're a lot better than
we were uncertainly from, from the assets that we need to work, Stacy's taken and drawn a line in the sand and said,
Okay, going forward, we're going to have good control. And so we do, but there's a lot of stuff in the past that | need
to bring forward. You know, everything from podcasts, to videos, to just all kinds of things | had, there used to be an
old, | can’t even remember the name of there's there was two as an alternative to YouTube. There was Blip, Blip tv,
remember, Blip tv, that was blip. TV. Exactly, right. But there was a blip tv, there was YouTube, and there was Vimeo.
And so we decided to go with Blip tv. So | loaded up all our videos to Blip tv, and then we got caught up in YouTube,
and | need to go get those Blip tv videos, and they're colliding. Right, so there's no backup. So you know, storage
space is pretty free. gotten to a point now where we're creating a stack of multi terabyte drives that | download stuff
so that | don't even have to depend on the cloud. So it depends on how anal retentive you want to be. And the only
other thing that you need to be aware of is the confidential information you have you have people's financials, you
have their socials, in a lot of cases you have their tax returns or, or the part of the tax return that you're providing to
them. So that you know you have you have information that really needs to not only be backed up for your own
benefit, and you probably want to have some system for indexing the hard copies to the digital copies so that you
know where to find both. And then you probably also want to make sure you have some type of a proper encryption
system. And I've been looking into different email systems like there's one called our posts that I've seen it a lot of
trade shows proton mail, where you go end to end encryption, so that when you're emailing people, you know you
ask them to establish an encrypted account, you're dealing with an encrypted account, maybe your team is dealing
with an encrypted account, and you're only secure Communicating inside that, like proton mail to proton mail. And
that way you have end to end encryption, the minute you communicate with a third party, like Gmail, like Hotmail,
like whoever. The challenge with those, as we now know, it’s no secret not conspiracy theory that those emails are
stored, they're scanned their data mined. And depending on what you're talking about terms of your deal, or people's
personal confidential information, you want to be careful, like | have a policy right now | can, I'll send you a
password. By email, | mean, I'll send you a user ID by by email, but I'll only text you the password, | will never put the
two together in one document ever. Things like that you so you know, we've kind of morphed a little bit in operations
to digital asset management, data security. But | think those are definitely things, since we're all operating in virtual
teams, that you want to begin to work on having a strategy for not just control control of the account, control of the
data, easy access to the data, and backups. And so kind of having a plan for each one of those categories is a good
idea. And the stuff that we're doing at the real estate guys is less sensitive, we have a lot less of confidential financial
information for our customers, you have some, you know, like with somebody at sea, we get people's passports, we
get their birth dates, we you know, we know a lot about them. So we have to, we have to be careful. But you guys are
dealing with a lot more of that, and are more of a target because it's anybody who knows what you do knows you're
quicker you get it and get it handled and kava plan. If you go back into the business planning module, the very
original business planning module, where you go in and you answer the questions. One of the questions we asked
you in the questionnaire is what is your strategy for managing data, managing documents, control, security, all that
stuff? The good news is there's a lot of people out there who can help you. at the tactical level. The bad news is in
order for them to be able to do it, you have to have a strategy you have to have be clear about what you want, you
know, a vision about what it’s going to look like they can give you input, like Stacey just gave you a lot of great input.
But at the end of the day, it’s got to be built around your business. You know, the advantage that with Stacy right
now and her team is that she’s working substantially with syndicators. So when you deal with somebody that is
dealing in a particular vertical, they really get to know the vertical, they bring in the great ideas and best practices,
they pick up other places. And that's why we wanted to have that type of a programming SMC, because | knew from
my own experience exactly what you guys were all going to go through, because that's what | went through. And
everything is flying all over the place. And if you're having success, you got money coming in, you got deals coming
in, and the data stacking up and the security holes are growing, and every day just gets messier and messier and
messier. And what you really need to do is turn to somebody who really knows how to fix the problem and knows
understands your business, and say, hey, help me help me get to a baseline, and then maybe a few custom tweaks
based on me and how | want to do it. And that's, that's what Stacey is doing for the program for people who choose
to engage her. So we can't cover her expenses inside of the program. You know, she has her own independent
business, but she certainly understands this side of it. So something to think about. But, but it, I'm so glad that this
topic came up for all of us, because you know, we didn't have it on the radar. But again, this is the whole thing. The
reason we do these ask the mentors this way is because after trying to think about everything we'd want to teach,
rather than try to sit in a closet and come up with a curriculum, we think is the master end all be all curriculum, we're
just going to teach as it comes, we're going to deal with the real world, as you guys are living in the real world, and
then come up with real world responses, it's not quite as organized. And as easily catalogued, we're doing that to a
great degree on the platform. But when you finally get to the meat of the matter, the stuff you get is a lot more
practical. So stay so I'm going to put on the wish list that we do some type of a training module specific to digital
asset management and control. And and then you know, it doesn't have to be like down to the NATs eyelash, but at
least give people a high enough level of understanding. So that they they have an idea what they should be looking
for, with a vendor and what type of things they should be looking for in their current arrangement to see where they
may already have glaring weaknesses and liabilities. And often, you know, you're not going to fix it, you know,
sometimes | say, Okay, we're not going to fix the past, let's just draw a line in the sand and going forward, let's do
everything on the new system. And little by little will pull stuff from the old into the new until we're all on one system.
Sometimes that's the way you have to approach it depending on how big a mess you have. Anyway, any anything

you want to say on that space before we | think we're pretty close to wrapping up here.

() Staci Gray 57:21

Yeah, | would just say it’s also very helpful when you because what you're talking about is really building out the
infrastructure to support the day to day operations of raising capital and doing deals. And when you're trying to
build up the infrastructure without having the process maps without having this. Because you're saying this, like
each, each thing talks to something else, right. So if you're working in G Suite, it may talk with Infusionsoft or it may
talk with your project management system or your investor portal, or it may communicate with a third party.
Understanding how all of those workflows need to happen, is really is really helpful before you just start setting up
piecemealing setting up things.

@ Russ 58:01

Yeah, let me let me put it in real estate terms. If you were to go build a custom house, and you hired the construction
crew first without hiring the architect, then you can't get people pouring foundations and framing and putting all
that stuff in if you don’t know what the outside is going to look like. Because the structure that holds the part you're
which we do not have access. And just on one last note on that, as Stacy will tell you, we have you know, our our
GoDaddy account where we have all of our names registered. And a lot of our email is administered through that,
especially the executive email. And I'm in the process of parsing out all my team manage domains from my executive
domains. But if you're going to give your team the ability to manage a domain and you give them access, you also
have given them access to your email. And so if you have critical infrastructure, financial accounts index to those
emails, you've really given them the keys to the kingdom. Now, I'm not saying they’re nefarious, and they're gonna
know how to use them or that they would, but it's a security breach or probably or hole that you probably don’t want
to have in your system. So we have administrative domains that are only used administratively or executively. And
they don't even have a public facing domain like Treg admin. Nobody, right? We don't use that publicly. It's a behind
the scenes, but there are certain accounts that are associated with it. That that We still own and control the domain,
therefore we own and control the email associated with it. The challenge with Gmail is you have to set up the Gmail
account with Gmail. And so you don't control the domain. So you have to make darn sure that you control the
account. So, Stace, | don’t know, you know more about that side to me. Is there something you want to add in that
regard?

&) Staci Gray 45:20

Well, two things | going back to what you were originally saying, Randy, | think what you were experiencing is people
were everyone had Gmail accounts. And they were you were using Google Drive. And Google Drive is in a shared
platform, G Suite has something called shared drives. And you get that by paying the $12 a month per user. So what
you have sounds like the free version, and everyone had their own Google Drive, they created it, and then they were
sharing it with each other, but they own the document inside of their own Google Drive, is that how you guys are set
up right now.

o Janna Hubbs 45:55

We pay for G Suite. And, okay, email account, we have an administrative one that only myself and Randy sees. We
have other emails, what we haven't done is, excuse me switched over and put the documents in the platform of G
Suite. So it’s one o'clock. And I've got to find somebody really good about doing that, because | really don’t want to
do it.

©) Staci Gray 46:24

| mean, | didn't sound like what | was saying is accurate, that right now all of your files are not in G Suite, you maybe
are set up in G Suite, but your files aren't in G Suite. So you're struggling because they're all in Google Drive, which is
very different than G Suite, which is a shared drive, you're paying for it, but you're not utilizing it. So if all of your files
are in Google Drive and not shared drive, you are going to continue to have that problem. So getting them all moved
over into G Suite, having your individual shared drives set up access given based on the role based email accounts
that you set up. For instance, our website, organized to sales website is purchased through GoDaddy. And then |
linked it to G Suite. So | still own it over and GoDaddy, but it's, | gave permission for G Suite to utilize it and then
create an individual email addresses inside of G Suite with all of the personal one person one so that when they're
they're interacting with external people, they can be a human being. But then we have the role based ones based on
behind the scenes, team members who aren't going to be interacting externally that can share a login for based on
their role. And then even further than that, we have naming conventions for everything that we do. So every
document, file, email, anything that gets created, it gets created inside of the naming convention. And the naming
convention is the same for every single brand that we work on. The only thing that is variable is that brands unique
thing, so they may have a deal that's named XYZ. And so their brand code is XYZ for that. So they'll have individually

some some customization, but it's all uniform. And | can share my screen if it would help you can see what I'm
© Russ 48:22

yeah, why don't you go ahead do that say so let me just quickly empower you to do that. And while you are doing
that, what I'll say or ask is maybe this would make a nice little module or series that we could do. Maybe even bring
in a consultant or somebody from Google, if they'll do that, or embed some Google training videos or whatever, but
try to create something so that somebody who's like trying to figure this out, from the beginning at least has an
overview of what they they need to do.

©) Staci Gray 48:54

So this is, this is the OTS G Suite drive. And | have one that's private, and you may want to do that as well, in the real
estate guys, we have one that's called execs. And it's all the executive team gets access to that drive. So we can do
forecasting, we can do you know, planning and strategy that maybe we don't want anyone else to see. Then we have
the marketing drive, the sales drive. And so inside of the marketing, it’s organized specifically like we have everything
that's branding related here website related here content, lead magnets, flyers and brochures, social media, PR and
media testimonials, Google Analytics, so it’s all completely wise. So if anyone's looking for something, they know
exactly where to go. And then people you can see over here that it people have access based differently. So like 13
people are in operation. So 13 people have access there. And then we have the external drive where we share
externally and then we have the FNA which is all of my the private confidential information so we don't share that
with anyone. One, but then we have HR where we have other people who are allowed to see it. So you can have
whatever you are whatever main folders you want. And then within them just organize it so it’s easier for everyone to
keep track. And then when files are named something like you can see this one is three P, which means third party
events. So inside of our naming convention, we have third party appearances, third party events, compliance, CTAs,
email campaign manager, and Zach's Infusionsoft marketing all of the things that are unique business categories,
and then the naming convention for it. So if | wanted to search in the drive for anything CTA related, | could just use
that code and every single file would have it because that's how files are named.

@ Russ 50:50

In my email campaign, when we're writing emails, | mean, those codes are used on promoting events, their codes are
used. They're those codes are not just used in files, but actually in data in documents that you create they it shows up
on indexes, it just become yeah becomes kind of the universal language that you learn the jargon, if you will, if your
particular business who's jealous already? Yeah, exactly. So this looks like

A 51:19

Google Drive. So is it how does that relate to G Suite in the so you transfer over? Or how does

®) Staci Gray 51:27

G Suite so shared drives is G Suite? Okay? So what you have is personal drive, you have my drive only and what
you're missing is shared drive. But sounds like for what Jim is saying is you do have it, you're just not utilizing it.
Everybody's putting their stuff in my drive instead of shared drive.
@ Russ 11:08

understand why this is important. So Jana keeps flirting with me. She’s waving her hands here. So I'm guessing she

wants to say something.

@) Janna Hubbs 11:16

What are the things that | also do is with the written SOP is like when my bookkeeper on certain tasks that are more
critical, ie Property Management detail and that type of thing, because things are flying in a different from different
people, is I'll have her verbalize if we have a hiccup in the system. I'll have her verbalize, or periodically, I'll have her
verbalize the process that she’s going through with the software for property management, as well as for our records
and that type of thing. And that seems to help because then I’m looking at the SOP. She is verbalizing her process as
she's doing it. And we can identify where there's maybe a glitch in the SOP for that. But the other thing on
piggybacking on Randy is yes, our property manager is overwhelmed in some respects. But he also is thinking, Oh,
this is just good enough. And when | brought it up last week at our team meeting, it was like, Well, | think we're just
good enough. But what he doesn't remember is when we had a switch over in teams, where we used to have a
person Oh, ah, and now we have person, er, they we had glitches up the union. And it's because the SOPs were not
well put together, and they were running out of memory. And memory is only as good as the person that's doing

© Russ 12:41

it. Well, when someone is an understudy, and they're stepping in, they just don’t know the role as well. And to Stacy's
point, you know, things change along the way. There's also a process for updating a process, there's a process for
creating a process and a process for updating a process. So there's only one process for whatever it is you're doing.
Now somebody may use their memory of what the process was to time two revisions ago. And that might be good
enough, you maybe don't even realize that they're working off memory until they make a mistake, and you're like,
Hey, how come you're not working off the SOP we updated it. So I'm sure there's a communication process. So
everybody who is responsible for that particular procedure is notified. And maybe even oriented when a process
changes, maybe not every single process, but certainly critical processes. But | want to go back and hit on what

CeCe said, which | think was really, really important. When you have somebody that is basically subordinate on your
team, and you're giving them a directive, and they’re pushing back. You know, you don't just want to put the hammer
down because then they don't feel heard. And then you're the kind of boss that people are like, you know, you're a
dictator, and then you have a different set of problems. But the other issue is that it's a sign, as Stacey said that
there's there's something there and it could just be culture and, you know, rebellion and, and issues that are maybe
more severe. Or it could just be a sign that they are completely overwhelmed. In which case, you know, you set the
original objection aside, just like we teach in sales, and you try to dig down to the objection that matters most
because if that overwhelm is showing up in something as innocuous as asking for an SOP to be produced, what
other things are they doing halfway? What other things are they not paying full attention to? Because they're
overwhelmed? What if that's something critical, and all sudden, you don't find out that they haven't had the capacity
to give it their best when it demanded their best? Now, they came around and said, Hey, look, I’ve got 10 items in my
portfolio of work | got to do three are mission critical. And this doesn't fall in that so you need to tell me do you want
me to let something else go? One of these top three to get to this. Where does this fit in my priority? It's a good
opportunity to have a conversation about what people are spending their time on and what their priority These are, |
remember one time when | ran my mortgage company, we're having a similar discussion. And | realized that we had
a very slow because | was cheap in the beginning. And | bought a very slow color printer. But in order to submit our
appraisals, we had to submit color appraisals. So they couldn't use the fast black and white laser printer, they had to
go to the stupidly slow $89 inkjet printer, and they were standing there waiting for this thing to print. And | looked at
it and | thought, okay, and | went and spent like $2,000, about this high speed laser color laser printer. So they could
whip these things out really, really fast, right. But until | was aware of where what was causing the time delay, |
_)oO

Hey, says hold that up to the camera one more time, because | didn't have you on full screen. | want to make sure
that viewers can see it. So yeah, so the idea is each one of those square boxes is a is something that needs to be
done in a sequence of events. And, you know, moving from thing to thing to thing is just understanding where what's
next and what came before. And then to her point. If you want to know how to do what's inside each box, you click
and then that's it. takes you to a specific standard operating procedure with pictures, diagrams, videos, tools,
whatever it is you need to do the job. Now, Stace, | don't know if it's possible for you to create like a generic PDF of
that to attach to this in the in the library when we post this, but | think that might be helpful for viewers, in addition
to just having you hold it up like that. But anyway, so | think the point there, everybody is just that, if you're going to
build a machine, and if you really want to have some fun, go watch. Shoot was the name of the movie with Ray Kroc
with Michael Keaton, about McDonald's. Remember the name of it?

Staci Gray 20:39
Oh, yeah. Oh, then golden arches. Was it? No,

Russ 20:43

no. Anyway, | mean, if you look it up it Michael Keaton played the character of Ray Kroc, the guy that found the
McDonald's brothers, he was a milkshake salesman found the McDonald brothers in San Bernardino. And the one
brother was this anal retentive engineer that just engineered the operation to the nth degree and was constantly
trying to just squeeze a little bit of extra productivity out of everything that they did. And it just kind of gives you a
real feeling for the value of building a strong processes. Because every time you do a deal, especially if you're going
to do fairly cookie cutter deals like say, you're in multifamily, and you're going to keep doing multifamily, then most of
what you do in a multifamily deal is going to be similar. There's every deal has its own nuances, | get it. But it’s
different than if you're going okay, I'm going to do a ground development project over here, I'm going to do a
conservation rights deal over here, I'm going to do an ATM machine deal over here, I'm going to do mobile park over
there, you know, you don't get a lot of leverage, because you're bouncing all around. So if you're going to be the
operator, you definitely want to make sure that you have a strong procedures, if you're going to invest in an operator,
| don't think it's a bad idea to understand how they operate and how secure their operations are. If you are going to
take a trip from here to the moon, or even if crossed the ocean. There are probably certain key systems that you
would want to have strengthened redundancy on! mean, Randy, you jump out of airplanes. Pretty sure you wear

more than one parachute just in case. Right? That's kind of standard.

22:23

The use a two jumps ago. Yeah. So

Russ 22:26

there you go. And, and then also you have, you know, airplanes, | used to work on cars and hot rod cars and kind of
the ultimate and hot writing a car was to use air quality aircraft quality fittings, and tubes and pipes. Because the
consequences of breaking down when you're 10,000 feet in the air versus breaking down, you know, and just having
to pull over to the side of the road. Those are two different levels. And so when you're dealing with investor money,
and you're dealing with a lot of investor money, and maybe you're dealing either with a smaller operator or an
unknown operator, | don't think it's a bad part of your due diligence to get a little bit of a feel how what their vital
functions are and how they back them up. If they have a key employee walk out if they go dark, if they go bankrupt,
are you are you ready for that? Do you have a plan B. And so having a good operational mind, even if you're not an
© Russ 07:10

| mean, a picture's worth 1000 words. So there's that. So the video is good. But when you have diagrams, that's
helpful. If you ever watched a YouTube video, | think the most useful YouTube videos, even the short ones have
bookmarks, and it tells you exactly how to skip to where you want to go to, to answer the question you want. So if
you're going to go to all the trouble to bookmark a video, which would make it the ultimate inefficiency and
usefulness, it's not that much more effort or maybe a different effort to go ahead and just created a document. Also
documents are easier to keyword search, depending on how big it is. If you're looking for something in particular,
break it up into headers, it’s just easier to index then then a video is. So now with all that said, and again, I'm out of
my expertise right now I'm just thinking on the fly. But to me if you've got somebody who says hey, I'm willing to

make the video, but | don't want to sit down and make this the written SOP because I'm running around with my hair
on fire, then | know when we first started this, | wanted to have procedures. And it was just Stacy and | and Stacy
wanted to have procedures, but she didn’t want to write the procedure. So we got we got assistants who actually did
the procedures. In fact, | can tell you, and | think Stacy's mentioned this before and correct me if I'm wrong stays. But
| don't think you actually ever wrote any of your own SOPs, you had the team members do it. And that was
important from the standpoint of him internalizing the content. So you did the video to show how it is done. And so
to me, and again, feel free to override me, Stace. But to me, it seems like if you have the person who's the primary
person doing the job, create the video, and then you hand it to whoever their backup is. And every vital function
should have a backup. If it's not redundant, you're not secure, then whoever's doing the backup can be the one who's
tasked with creating the process. And at the very least, the act of writing the process from the video forces them to
have watch. It's like when you were a kid, or just like when you were a teacher. And you know, what you would do is
you'd say, hey, read this book and write me a book report. Right? Just writing reading the book wasn’t enough. Right?
Write me a book report. So | know that, you know, you know what's inside the covers, not just that you you know, put
the time in that you actually were able to regurgitate it if you will. So Stacy, did | talk out of school or is that pretty

close?

@) Staci Gray 09:24

That's pretty good. | think also, | have found just this is not really related to SOPs, but | have found in leading teams
that when you get pushed back, what they're what you're experiencing as what they're pushing back on isn't really
what they're saying is they're saying, | don't have time, | don't have capacity. I'm stressed out. I'm overwhelmed. |
don't like doing it. They're saying something else. They're not really saying what they're saying. So that's why I'm my
first question is why really getting that pushback? Yeah. Is it because they don't see the value in it? Or is it because
they just don't want to do it and they | think their highest and best use is something else. They think it’s below them,
you know, there could be something else there that you might want to dive into, because that could lead to a culture
issue. And that could be a bigger issue besides just not wanting to do this one thing.

A 10:15

Right, | think | think it's pretty simple for us, | mean, we've got VA is to write those things down, and we can just send
the video off to them, they can take care of it. | think he’s just, you know, not following through right now, at this
point in time with at least getting those videos to ask or whatever we got to do the system of offloading. He certainly
is he’s running around with what little airy has on fire. But, you know, it ultimately is one of those things more where
it's just more of a follow up process. | think that he needs it. And just | think, honestly, he doesn't see the necessity of
it, because the team he's working with love the videos and so, but | think honestly from me, like you say updating a

backup, all those kinds of things. These are real good reasons why | think he, you know, will
the video, you know, this happens to be just a few people. But, you know, I'm wondering if you could help provide a

little bit of insight as to, you know, why it's important to have that written backup or that written SOP? So | can at
least, you know, justify why it is we're doing what we're doing so

© Russ 03:07

sure. Well, I'm not going to answer | don't have a lot to say on the subject. I'm definitely going to hand this one over
to Stacy,

© Staci Gray 03:13

why are you getting pushback?

03:15

JO

Well, largely because he's going well, | do these SOPs, | make a Zoom video of it. And then | just have them watch
the video. And they're good with that. He says | don’t even know if they'd ever read it. So, you know, | think having
the video is fine. But you know, in my opinion, it's if you're gonna try to train a monkey, it's kind of good to have the

written background or a fee for some running or whatever reason, you know, leaves, and I've got to have somebody
else in place, perhaps that might be beneficial as well. So,

© Russ 03:48

and Randy, before you became a syndicator, what did you do for a living?

03:52

Was a band director?

JO

© Russ 03:54

Yeah, you're a teacher? Yeah. So you're qualified to have an opinion on what it takes to teach somebody? Sure. Hmm.
So you might trust your own judgment to a large degree. But Stacey didn't mean to interject. | just thought that that

was funny that somebody who's never taught is telling a teacher what it takes to | think your turn was teacher
monkey. Actually, he's

A 04:15

a he was a he is another teacher. Right. Okay. Our whole team is full of teachers. So yeah, so

® Russ 04:21

did did did when he trained his students. did he teach bv lecture onlv or did thev have textbooks and Exactlv. veah.
going to have that kind of information. And that creates a liability. And since we're talking you might as well make
sure that when you're putting together your insurance policies, those policies, if you have data breach insurance,
which your should are going to ask you what your data security policies and procedures are. And they may even
want you to attach them as as an addendum to your application. So be prepared for that if you haven't already
gotten there. And so | think one of the things that Stacey maybe you can do as you work through with people is take
a look at what people are doing and how they're handling it, come up with what you think are best practices work
with some of our advisors, because | know we need to clean it up on our end. And I'm sure that most of the people
who are watching this at this stage of their development, certainly people on the call probably need to clean it up to
now with all that said, Do any of you on the call? Do you have any policies, procedures, any experience in any of that
with respect to digital assets and data security? Or did | just open up a whole big can of worms for you?

(s) Staci Gray 32:44

Well, not so much for me, because actually, when | do it with the brands that we work with, we most of them work
with Mauricio, and we, they ask him how we're setting it up is okay. And Raisa said yes. So we get legal approval to
make sure that our structuring is secure. And so we have a whole protocol for where different items are stored. And it
has been fine. It's been fine so far, but everyone that needs to check with their own legal team to do it. But

@) Janna Hubbs 33:16

we use Maroussi Oh, and Julian and | think that our process is secure as well. But | want to go back on what you said
as far as need data breach insurance. Yeah. Is that through, you know, and b&o is

& Russ 33:32

liability. | know that your liability policy probably because because the liability is is that you are entrusted with
confidential data, you have a degree of responsibility to protect that data. And if somebody breaches your data
systems and accesses that data and somebody is harmed. And again, I'm not a lawyer, but then they could have a
cause of action against you. And so in that case, you would want to have an insurance policy that would stand up
and pay for your defense and settle any judgments if that came up. So that's a discussion you probably start out
having with your insurance broker. Or what | would do | like to start with my attorney because that way, if if | have a
gap in what I'm doing, whatever | discuss with my attorney, when | reveal my flaws, is confidential. If you say
something to your insurance broker, having been an insurance broker, they have responsibilities to the carriers to
disclose what they know, your attorney does not have that responsibility unless you're breaking the law. If you're not
breaking the law, if you just have sloppy systems, then you can find out exactly what you need from your attorney
first. So you have a compliance attorney is an SEC attorney like Mauricio and I'm not saying ratio is not qualified to
give you this but | would ask him point blank if he if he if he feels that he is because I'm talking very specifically
about current Which counsel, somebody that would be defending you if you had this kind of breach. And, you know,
when you're going through and doing the SWOT analysis on your business, and you're trying to figure out where your
strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats are, this would obviously be categorized in a weaknesses category
until you fix it, the minute you fix it, and you're proud to proclaim to everybody how strong your systems are, it
becomes a strength, it becomes a selling point. If I'm out there competing with you, and | have great bookkeeping.
And |, you can call me and | can give you | can, within 30 minutes, | can send you a complete file, detailed of the
books and everything that goes from being a weakness to being a very competitive strength, because another
syndicator might not be able to do that. If by the same token, when I'm someone's turning over their financial
information, | am telling them and bragging about the strength of my data security systems. I’m not telling them that
other people have bad data security systems. But I'm making it a strength that which makes them question, | wonder
if that other guy has that. And then they go talk to the guy found out that he doesn't, you haven't thrown him under
JO

JO

the bus, you've just sold strength against a potential weakness. And my experience in business has been most
marketers most deal people are very, very weak and bookkeeping, operations, data security, lot of the structure,
they're just bad at it, because it’s just boring and seems to be unprofitable. But if you can put it in the context that
you can put this work in the context of making a weakness, a real competitive strength and look at it as a marketing
edge, it makes it a lot more fun to work on. Because you can go out there and sell this as a strength. So | would start
| would start with, with with coverage counsel. So when you're going through the process, what you're doing is you're
building a team, you're like, Well, who would | talk to? Well, you might start with coverage counsel, or you might start
with Well, let's see if | just got sued for a data breach, who would | call, if you don't know who to call and your team
isn't well rounded. If you do know how to call who to call, then you know who to call to get the answer to this
question. And then they can refer you further down the road. And then once you kind of get things figured out what
it is you should have and get the basics in place, then then do you can approach your insurance carrier and say, hey,
| want to make sure that I'm covered for this. And when they tell you that you are then you say show me where in the
policy that so and then you take that to your insurance coverage Council and say, hey, my broker who's not qualified
to give me legally binding advice, is telling me that my cover my policy covers it, I've read it. Maybe, but I'm not so
sure. Would you give me your opinion, please. And then when you get an opinion from somebody qualified to give
you such an opinion, who'd be in a position to defend you if that policy got triggered, and whose Eno insurance
would, would cover you if they gave you bad advice. Now you're really covered. Now, you may not do that for you
know, non accredited investor, if you got a little fund and you know, how damaged are they going to be? | mean, it
could still be bad. I'm not saying don't do it. But when you start dealing with high net worth people, you want to
make sure that you have tight tight stuff. You want to be pro. So yeah, | never know what's gonna come up on these
calls. But | think that was a fun little rabbit trail to go down. Maybe any questions or comments about that? | know,
John, you have a little bit of background, not as a lawyer, but in the study of law. Anything you can think of that |
either misspoke or could be better said. You're muted.

38:37

No, | actually, | am a lawyer. | just don't practice law. I'm licensed. | was sitting here thinking great legal advice.

Russ 38:50

Well, sadly, | have been in a lot of situations and I've learned things the hard way, but that's why we do the club
because Robert and | paid full price for some of this wisdom and you guys get it for a fraction a small fraction of
what it cost us. Okay, well, good. That's good to know. Okay, I'm not sure where we're at timewise just do a quick
time check. Theoretically, we have 20 more minutes we don't have to use the whole time but | Stacey and | are
dedicated to you until then. Anything else that any of you came into now we've triggered that you'd like to discuss
operationally?

ao:22

I'd like to know more about the G Suite thing if you want to go down that rabbit hole but just really what we need to
be looking at their that'd be cool.

Russ 39:31
Okay, | will punt to Stacy on that one.
January 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Business
Operatio...

@ Tue, 10/26 1:26PM @ 59:36

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, sop, stacey, deal, g suite, shared, stacy, operations, drive, email, business, accounts, systems, create, written, randy, data,

files, organized, process

SPEAKERS

Russ, Janna Hubbs, Staci Gray

) Russ 00:17

A syndication mentoring club it's for us. We are here for a another edition of Ask The mentors. And today we're
covering business operations. January, mid January, actually, it's Inauguration Day 2021. So we are now inaugurating
a new year for all of us and trying to get ourselves organized, usually the beginning of the year, my New Year's
resolution among many other things is to get, get my act together. And so operations is about getting your your
business act together. And as they say, the devil is in the details. And so | am not the world's best operational person,
| think | could do it. But | don't have a good time splitting activities between marketing and operations and
accounting. So | like to just focus on marketing and business development, being creative. And | count on people a
heck of a lot more smart than me to work on keeping things organized. And for me that Stacy and her group, and
then | think that she she has learned a lot over the years. And now that she’s really working with syndicators, she's
got a lot to bring to the party. So it was one of the big promises we made when we started the club, that we'd have
somebody that kind of hovered over a lot of folks operations and would be paying attention to what they're doing
kind of pulling out best practices and coaching each other up. And so | think we're already getting some of that
going on. So | stalled a little bit there to give a couple of RSVPs chance to show up, they're still not in the waiting
room. So we're gonna kick this thing off. Welcome, and thank you for being here. And | guess then, I'll just start with
the question stays first, and then we'll deal with the question, and then we'll open it up to open forum or talk about
whatever we have on our minds. So work for you. Sure, yeah. Okay, great. So this is from Randy. And, Randy, do you
want to ask your question live? Since you're on the call, or do you want me just to read it for you?

02:08

I'm sure | can ask | can do that. Can you hear me? Okay. Yep. Hear You? Great. Great. Yeah, well, we were curious,

JO

we've been doing a lot of SOPs, and you guys had mentioned in a prior meeting that, you know, rescued specifically
said, you know, you just rattle off something on Zoom, make a recording of it. And then it's followed up with someone
else down the line that writes up the actual SOP based on your recording, which we've been doing quite a bit with
not only the property management company, but all of our systems. And I'm getting a little bit of pushback from a
couple of people, largely our property manager who says, Well, | just make the video and and they just want to see
51:46

JO

Yeah, I've got one thing and shared drive. But then if | want to look up like our development project, | have to go to

shared with me, because we started out with another person in charge of that he’s no longer on the team. But he's
exactly,

@ Russ 51:58

but it’s still that stuff is still in his drive, and he still has access to it.

) Staci Gray 52:03

Yeah. And it’s super messy.

© Russ 52:05

So what an extra liability

@) Staci Gray 52:09

with shared drive, if somebody leaves, so | have admin controls. And if | want to remove anyone who's on our team is
able to let me do it if | want to remove anyone that's on our team. So say, | want to remove this person, I'm not going
to do it. But if | were to remove them, and delete them as a user, it'll say, Who do you want to transfer this all to? So |
can say transfer it all to Stacey. And | want all their drives all their calendar items, all their brand accounts, all their

data, everything gets transferred for to me, | am then the new owner, and everything stays where it was originally
filed. But now | own it. So nothing ever gets lost. Oh, no.

@) Janna Hubbs 53:05

We don't have it set up completely. That's the so | guess | need to find somebody to help do that.

©®) Staci Gray 53:12

Yeah, it’s a chore, especially when you have cleanup.

© Russ 53:16

Yeah, well, and again, that's why the sooner you're aware of what you don't know, the sooner that you can stop
making a bigger mess that somebody later on is going to have to clean up. You know, | operated for a long time by
the seat of my pants. And part of it was | didn't know what | was doing. Part of it was | didn’t have time to do it.
Right. Part of it was | decided that because, you know, the person who was going to come later was so far out of my
radar, that, you know, | would do it good enough and figured it was all going to land on them. Well, then Stacey

came along and it all landed on her and she's they've been you know, they're still cleaning stuff up. You know, so the
couldn't really address the real problem. And so there may be more to it. So sometimes something as simple as, as a
little bit of pushback on any task you get, this just happens to be the one we're talking about, especially a lower level
task, maybe one that you think shouldn't take that much time could be an indication of an attitude or culture
problem as Stacey mentioned. Or it could be an indication that somebody is completely overwhelmed. In which
case, | think it's a great time to take an inventory of their portfolio of responsibilities, and see what you can either get
off their plate or make more efficient, and certainly have a discussion about priority so that if they are going to drop
a ball, they dropped the right one. Because if you come and bark at them, hey, | want you to do this SOP because |
said so. And they elevate it to number one. But really, their portfolio should only be a number three, because you got
two other things ahead of it. But you're not making the decision in the context of knowing what they're working on,
you could end up pulling them off task to your own detriment. Does that make sense? Absolutely. Yeah. So it was
really great insight Stacey had and | just didn't want to let that go without embellishing a little bit because | think it
was worthy of extra attention.

© Staci Gray 16:42

JO

To say | just want to piggyback off of that, | think in leading a team and you guys have kind of a bigger bigger team
now. Right? Well, | have found is managing capacity is one of my biggest roles. Because when when you have people
who are over capacity, and they’re your A players, they start dropping balls. And when they start dropping balls, they
feel like crap about themselves because they're a players and they want to perform. So when they feel like crap
about themselves, their confidence plummets, when, when their confidence plummets. They don't take action or they
make poor decisions. And so then you're in a situation we have somebody that you thought was an A player making
poor decisions, not prioritizing, well, being frazzled, not being a good leader to their subordinates. And it's really just
a reflection of capacity. And so as you're kind of trying to figure out, put the operational infrastructures in place, then
already being overwhelmed, and then having to come off of that to try to put operational disciplines in place can
you can have some friction there. And it's really just them needing to get to a place where they know that you they
trust that you know what they're going through, and that you are doing this all in their enlightened self interest to
give them capacity so they can sit in their sweet spot. So it is sales to what Ross said. It's primarily selling them on
why it's in their best interest to do it. Sure. And then on the second point is, do you guys do process maps? So not
SOPs, but process maps?

18:18

No, | don't think so. | mean, nothing, not formally, | don't believe

Staci Gray 18:24

pulled up one. Um, so process map looks something like this. Like you have your swim lanes, your swim lane, oops,
sorry, swim lanes, and then your big boxes of everything that needs to get done to do this process. So each of these
will link to a sock. So | have found that oftentimes, when we're creating SOPs, we'll have a whole list of SOPs, but
unless it's put on a process map, people will forget that we have a sop, and not even know where to go to get to the
SOP. So having your SOPs organized, so that people can utilize them in an efficient, efficient manner is really
important important, in addition to just creating them. So the process maps gives the give the person who's
executing context, so where they fit in the assembly line, like who are they're getting an input from and who they're

giving the output from. So it's like a relay race where they're handing off. It creates way faster execution.

Russ 19:31
© Staci Gray 39:34

JO

So the way we set up all G Suite accounts is based on an org chart. So we have a we don't have anybody can just
create any folder they want. We have sales, marketing, operations, tech, finance and legal and admin. And then
anything that is created goes into that based on the category what Over category it is. And if you have different
team members that are only needing access to your sales drive, you just give them access to your sales drive, they
don't have to have access to your finances, and legal drive. So it keeps things a little bit cleaner, we also create an
external drive. And that's the only drive that we put files in that can be shared externally. So nobody ever has access

to any of the other drives, if a file needs to be shared and shared from the external drive.

Russ 40:30

That makes sense.

40:32

Yeah, | suppose if | understand this correctly, then, um, one of the problems that we've had with like, say, Google
Drive, if somebody creates, you know, a series of folders and systems within that, then your ability to share and move
things around and change are really limited, because there's a typical owner. And that's one of the things we've run
into is different team members have, you know, set something up. And it’s a real great asset, but then when you want
to go in and deal with that document or something, because you don't have the, quote, ownership of that. That's a
problem. So what you're saying here now, is that using this external drive, everybody's got free Willie, ability to, you
know,

Russ 41:20

work with it. Yeah, Randy, let me jump in there real quick, because this was what | was mentioning earlier. And again,
Stacy, correct me if I'm wrong, but we're big fans of role accounts. And so when somebody is sitting in a seat, they're
sitting in a role. And if they're operating a Gmail, Drive or folder or collection of assets, they're doing all of that inside
that role account, which you own and control. So they are never ever operating in their own personal account, we
catch people doing it from time to time and they get reprimanded because it gets sloppy. But but that's a
requirement, at least with with us is that that all of these accounts, because one of the first thing Stacey and her
team had to do was go through, go through and unravel the big mess that | had made with a variety of contractors
over a period of time and get things you know, from all the different nooks and crannies, they were hidden and wrest
control from people, chase them down and get them to release the credentials and make us owners | mean, it was a
big mess to clean up and the you know, if you're already there, then this | can tell you from experience, the sooner
you come up with a plan, and then and then or reorganize your infrastructure to fit that plan. But the core principle is
there that all access codes, passwords, emails, everything is centrally controlled by you and or your executive team.
So when | have content rolling around, | code it. If | look at a file name, and it says it's got the business unit initials,
like in my case, Treg, tr, eg. And then the next thing it says is either Mao which means my eyes only, only me, EEO,
which means you executive eyes only. Teo, which is Team eyes only. Or otherwise, it's something that's probably
available for Republic. And then and then what | used to do was have everything in a shared folder, things that |
shared. And, and then of course, I'd have them in their original folder where they belonged. Sometimes | would use
links. But anyway, | don't want to get too deep into that. Because, you know, you have to figure out what works for
you. And Stacey probably has a lot better handle she she took my starting point or some of my requirements and
cleaned it all up. And candidly, | don't 100% know how we operate under the hood right now, which is fine by me,
because | know I've got someone in there that | trust that set it up according to my my high level requirements, which

was we cannot have accounts with company assets owned and controlled by individuals or email accounts over
operational person, | still think is important. | think | have a decent operational mind. I’m not great at operations
because | don't like to get that deep into the weeds. But at least | understand the concept and the value of it. So for
whatever that's worth. Okay, so did we beat that topic to death? Randy, is there anything more? You wanted to get

out of your question?

23:36

No, that's awesome. | got more than what | thought | was gonna get. So that's pretty good.

_JO

© Russ 23:40

Well, you know that our Robert and | are devoted to constantly delivering bonus time. There you go. Good. Perfect.
So okay, well, John, you're on the call. And did you come in with a question or something you wanted to talk about?
He just just here to be a fly on the wall? Here to be a fly on the wall. Okay. So, Stace, you have been course flitting
around dealing with people both inside and outside the club. And you've been at this now for quite a bit, in addition
to all the work that you've done for, for Robert and | with real estate guys, have you seen or heard anything that you
think is worth sharing with anybody any insights, any ideas, epiphanies, big mistakes somebody made that you
thought, boy, everybody should be aware of that | think popped your mind.

@® Staci Gray 24:25

One thing that | keep seeing with a lot of people that we're working with is leveraging on like digital tools to
streamline communications with virtual teams. So a lot of people have stuff in OneDrive or Dropbox or Google Drive,
and it’s not shareable and things are all over the place and or on their desktop and their people are struggling to
actually be efficient in virtual working. So I've seen I've been seeing that quite a bit. | don’t know if any of you guys on

the call have He struggled with that or have something set up where it's easier for you.

25:06

i We have definitely matter of fact, one of the things on our list to do is to get into the try to get a better sense for
operating out of the, what is the Janna there Google? What's the pro Google Drive? We're using Google Drive, but

JO

© Russ 25:26

it's G Suite?

25:27

G Suite. Yes. G Suite? Yeah. And | know, there's been, you know, in an effort to try to get more involved with that,
because it sounds like that has the ability to share more. | mean, I've Yeah, I'd be interested to know what you what

JO

your thoughts are on that.

@ Russ 25:44
no.

@) Janna Hubbs 04:28

Jo

You? Who didn't hear me? Randy did not hear you? No, | did. | heard.

Russ 04:38

Yeah, he heard me and he answered.

Staci Gray 04:42

| don't think you heard Jana who's

Russ 04:44

out of it here. I'm not sure. Okay.

Staci Gray 04:48

| think to your point, people learn different ways. And if you're looking at it from a scalability standpoint, and you
want to organize to scale, certain that person may not be doing it forever. So Definitely having it set up so that
whoever is going to be doing it down the line, they have different means of consumption based on how they learn.
That's one. Second thing is, we update SOPs on the fly. So we will, as you're growing a business, as you're organizing
as you're hitting different roadblocks, and different things come up, you're saying on a call, Hey, on that SOP
updated, can you just make sure when you do that step, you do this also, if the only way to do it is every single time
you had to update the SOP to re record exactly how to do it like a five minute 10 minute video, that’s very time
consuming. So it's so much easier to keep the SOPs up to date and current when you have it written. And also, if you
wanted to see where the breakdown was in something, it's, | would prefer to get a written thing where | can just scan
and see oh, that's where the problem is. fixed that one line, versus me having to watch video after video after video
to figure out where the breakdown is. So from a leadership and management perspective, it's way easier for you to
do it based off of written, then just video and then the video could be outdated pretty quickly. If you just only had
video and you knew you were making edits along the way, we have a process where we actually have a sop for how
to create a sop. And then within that SOP is how to keep the SOPs updated. So we review them regularly to make
sure that they're current. And we have a practice that if you're doing a task you are working off of the SOP, you aren't
working off of memory. Because what somebody may not know is that a different team member had a conversation
with somebody else and updated that SOP and it made a change, it had a ripple effect. So everyone has to work off
the SOP, which means if they're watching a video, every time they're doing it that takes way longer than just going
down the task list. And seeing you know 12345 doing these things. That makes sense.

07:09
Absolutely. Yeah,
