Russ 35:35

That's right. And so when you bring these types of solutions, and you bring an expert who can help you explain them,
because you can't be given tax advice. | mean, you can, Mike, but but syndicators can't. And so they're willing to do
that, if you give them an efficient way to do it, right. If they have to talk with your investors, one person time,
probably not so much, right. But if you if you organize a piece of content, and then record it, and make that
available, well, then that's better. And if you can get a few of your prospective investors on the call, where they can
ask real life questions, maybe even better, you know, and then you can edit that after the fact and turn it into
something useful. | think a lot of times we think that there we have to do 1800 different things. And there's really, this
is such a simple business, there's just a handful of things that are important to get good at. And one of them, as
Dave Zook has proven, as buck Joffrey has proven these guys have raised hundreds and hundreds of millions of
dollars each is when you get good at solving people's tax problems, you have something really valuable to valuable
people. And the fact that the tax code is in complete flux right now, meaning means all those relationships are in flux
too. And that gives you an opportunity to shake loose relationships from people and bring them into your your
clubhouse, if you will. So, you know, you can't, you can't concentrate on becoming an expert in everything. But if you
look at the people who are really crushing it, the people who understand how to bring the tax benefits of their deal
to their high net worth, high income, high tax people, and there's going to be more of those people looking for tax
answers today, then the greater value, you have to bring in a greater opportunity you have. So I'm just gonna
encourage you put the time in to really, really learn this stuff. And even if you just have a handful of people that you
use as your guinea pigs as your case study, people that you know that have high income, have a tax problem and
say, Hey, I'm working on putting together deals to help people just like you, in order for me to really understand your
problem. Can we spend a little time together and help me help me really understand? How are you approaching
these changes in the tax code or these potential changes in the tax code? How happy are you with your current tax
burden on a scale of one to 10? Right? Do you feel like you're you're overtaxed Do you feel like you're your tax
planning is doing a good job and you're you're mitigating a lot of your tax. | mean, doesn't matter what how you
think they're doing? It matters how they think they're doing the famous story about Brad some rock who thought he
was doing great. I'm doing great. Like | paid a million bucks in tax, | must be crushing it. The McElroy is like you're an
idiot. Right? You've got the wrong tax guy. And then all sudden, he found out he could cut his tax bill by $965,000 his
whole paradigm about how well he was doing shifted, he thought he was doing great. Then he woke up and found
out he was doing terrible, and is a sophisticated guy. So there there are those opportunities out there. So | just
encourage you to you know, even though this is probably one of the least interesting areas, | think it can become
really one of the most interesting areas because it can become one of the most effective marketing, conversation
starters and relationship builders that any of you have. And most people you're competing against suck at it. They
just suck at it. They just run around with their deal and they pitch their ROI and they throw a bunch of crap against
the wall and hope some stick and it's just you there's too many people in this space to be that kind of a syndicator
my opinion. Whereas you have a real opportunity to take people like Mike and gain these huge competitive edges
but you got to put the time in. You got to put the time in. Okay, so that's a little bit of another monologue by me a
little rant but hopefully that you found some value in that. Anybody else have any questions for Mike while we have
them or Mike, anything you want to add on to any of that?

Mike Pine 39:51

| can just add on to a little bit of what you just said. I've never I've never had the pleasure of meeting but | see his
deals or the emails he sends out through So many of my clients and other syndicators, and I've seen for the same
deal for different emails written based on the target market, there were all different diff, some real estate
professionals, some weren't, but for different emails curtailed on the tax benefits and the economic benefits of that
deal could offer that particular target audience. And | think that's exactly what Ross is talking about, is his classify
your classify and quantify what it is that your intended audience is looking for. And | shouldn't go in the area of
marketing when | have Russ gray next week, because he is the expert, but figure out what it is that they want. And
and the other thing | think he does great, as you look at his email blurbs, they're short, they just have some major
to tell. It's always good to ask. And you can ask questions about things like well, how are you handling this? How are
you handling that you bit issue with the financing? What do you mean, | didn't know there was a problem? Well, it's
my understanding that if you have an IRA, use financing, you've got this, but if use this other type of vehicle that
doesn't exist. Have you heard of that before? No. Oh, well, maybe maybe you ought to take a look at it. Right? In
other words, You're disturbing people without being a no at all. Okay, so you can use that with things like
counterparty risk right now. The system is rife with counterparty risk. Most people don't understand current
counterparty risk. They're talking to their financial planner and their financial planners like oh, you know, bond and
allocation, you know, and, like, Yeah, well, how am counterparty risk? deer in the headlights about currency risk? How
are you handling that deer in the headlights? Oh, well, you know, and yet inflation stagflation is all we hear about. So
again, learn to understand how to take advantage of these little pieces of information, you get that sound a little off
the main stream and don't run around and wax like expert on any of it. But do your homework and get your mind
around. That's what | appreciate about Mike a mike didn't pop up. And I've been doing this a long time. He's like, I'm
curious about that. And he ordered the book right away. | remember | was on the call with him. And he literally
ordered the book as we were talking and bought it and read it and then of course engaged with with Damian, to
understand it better. And these are these are all opportunities because there's basically two major sources of money
out there that if you tap into both of them you don't have to be out there beating your head against the bubble
stock market that everybody is just in tulip mania and can't like go up. Right if you go after IRA money then then
some of its invested in the stock market for sure. But people feel about it differently than they do the rest of their
stock portfolio typically. And then the other one is the equity in real estate is huge. We're that's going to be one of
the topics we're going to be talking about this upcoming syndication, mentoring meetup. We're going to be doing a
lot of focus on the whole equity arbitrage concept and really understanding how to use your that team the same
way we're talking about using your your CPA as a way to open up conversations and get people talking about their
financial situation their financial concerns and their financial opportunities. Okay, so Ben van axe has any thoughts
on Tom wheelwrights views that despite the advantage of the EQ RP is investors committed to investing real estate
long term that it could be better to pull the funds out of the retirement account?

Mike Pine 55:13

For the second time, I've had that question in two days. | am assuming the reason that that Tom is suggesting it’s
better to not have it in a qualified retirement account or real estate that is, is because if it is in a qualified real,
qualified retirement account, you cannot utilize a depreciation to offset any of your, your personal income, your
ordinary income, your W two income or your other income, active income from sources, you cannot use it, you can
utilize it to offset other income in that might subject be subject to ubit taxes if you're not in a Q Rp. But that is the

only thing that you make can make sense to me. And why he would say

Russ 55:56

yeah, that's what | mean. | know because I've talked to Tom, that’s what he does.

Mike Pine 56:00

That being said, there's it’s six and doesn't want to one, six and one, one half dozen than the other. There's different
views on it. If you're number one desire and you can qualify as an active real estate professional is to reduce current
income and you have a lot of active income that you need to reduce then you probably don't want to use a
retirement account. Or if you don't have that issue and it's all passive anyways, then it's good to use a retirement
account because any contribution you make into a retirement account, that's not a Roth gives you a deduction
against your active trader business income. Now in a spoiler alert, Damian is rolling out and he's in the beta testing

now is the ability to create what's called either a defined benefit or cash balance EQ RP, he’s got them now he just
doesn't have the platform to start doing it ramping them up and won't until q3. But you'll have the ability to
potentially put away three or $400,000, sometimes even more in one year into an investment retirement account
and get that as a deduction off your W two income. So in your case, | forget who was always asked, | think it was
Ben, where he asked, What do | do if | cannot, you know, like investors can't take that depreciation.

© Russ 57:10

Oh, Alex. Now it was Michael.

© Mike Pine 57:13

Sorry. Yeah, it was Michael. | said, Remember, Michael, it's a good name, Michael. In that case, it makes perfect sense
to take a retirement account that you can utilize if you can qualify for it and create this defined benefit EQ RP, by the
way, three or $400,000. Get that deduction today, and let it grow tax free and your retirement account. So it all

depends on what situation each particular investor is in. But | still think er peas are awesome. In so many different
cases.

© Russ 57:41

Yeah, well, they have the asset protection component to which is a different discussion, but only think an important
one. Okay, | think we're at the top of the hour. And rather than open up a new can of worms with a new question. |

think we'll end there, Mike, any closing comments, anything that you think anybody should be aware of stuff you see
coming down the pike or things you're watching anything like that,

© Mike Pine 58:02

| would just say, remember, this new tax landscape where things are changing is a huge opportunity. It's nothing to
be scared of, if you stay on top of it. But find someone either you stay on top of it yourself and get into the nitty gritty
of the new tax law or find someone that’s into it and following it and is ready to give you updated advice every day
because it's coming out daily. But mostly rumors now but it’s coming out. So stay on top of it and seize an
opportunity and utilize that. With the business that you're creating and with your syndications. utilize it it's a great
opportunity. Like Russ said, there’s going to be a lot of money shifting around be on the receiving end of

© Russ 58:39

that. Yeah, | think the big message is just make sure you're including tax strategy, tax solutions in your marketing, and
your marketing, you know, development, your messaging, because, again, the people that | see that are having the
greatest success raising the most money are people that are dealing with people that have tax problems or selling
businesses, they're high paid professionals, they have some type of a big liquidity event something and when you
start traveling in those circles, these guys all hang out with each other and they're like, Hey, | found an answer. You
should talk to my guy. And it’s like the big secret sauce. So you know, it’s working for guys like Eric Shelley, obviously
working for Dave Zook. So if it can work for them, it can work for you guys, too. So thanks for being on the call

everyone. And then we'll look forward. | hope to seeing everybody at the upcoming meetup in Phoenix. Okay.
advisor who is part of your team. All right. Hold on. All right. Sorry, Scott, Florida, | muted you. So yeah, so so you get
them those people into your border collie team. And then they can begin to reinforce your relationship and their
relationships with each other. And you just get more of what | call account control, not again, to use against the
client in any way, but actually help them overcome their own inertia. Because one of the biggest problems people
have in dealing with their financial advisors is those guys, they don't work together, they don't talk to each other. And
so the the the poor client is sitting here trying to figure it out. Now you're in the max, right, you're there pitching your
deal. And they've got their CPA who needs to look at the deal. He doesn't understand you or what you're doing. And
then he's got, they've got their attorney who handles their estate plan. And if you're asking the right questions, you
might think, Oh, my gosh, | don't even want to bring this up, I'm opening a bigger can of worms than is worth it. But
the backside of that is you're opening a can of worms, it's going to raise some questions and gives you real
opportunity to demonstrate the value not just of your deal. Because this is not a deal business. This is a relationship
business. And if you understand that, you're opening up the opportunity to enhance the relationship and then bring
all of your relationships to the aid of your investor, it's going to enhance your relationships, it’s going to give
everybody value. And it’s going to give your prospective investor or your active investor an opportunity to not only
feel better about what they're doing and understand more of what they’re doing and have that all reinforced. But it's
also going to give them a reason to refer their friends to your team, right? If you're looking for a referral from
somebody for a deal, then they're either interested in the deal or they're ready for a deal or they're not it's binary, it's
yes or no. But if you have four or five or six different things, tax strategy, asset protection strategy, you know, with this
equity arbitrage or equity protection strategy, you get, you know, whatever it is, and you get people thinking about
those things and asking their friends about these things, then those are conversation starters. And once that
conversation comes, if people are interested, then they're like, Hey, who who do you know, | actually know people
because | have a whole team that does this for me. So don't be afraid of starting those conversations. It really will
make you stand apart. It's part of the reason we do these Astra mentors is to give you guys this food for thought. So
that when you get back out there in the real world and you start having conversations, you got a few talking points
bouncing around in your head, everything to me is marketing. And everything is about enhancing the relationship
and solving problems. And so you have to have an idea of what some of those solutions look like based on the types
of problems people are trying to solve. Again, just constantly trying to remind you get out of your own head. And
don't just focus on, I'm trying to get a deal done. And this is my deal. And this is my pitch. And this is what it looks
like. And it’s so myopic, like, step back and see the bigger picture, and realize how much value that you can bring.
And then how much value you need to bring if you really want to set yourself apart. So that's a little bit of my
monologue there. Okay. So the other question that we had, yeah, that helped Alex give you what you needed. Good.
Appreciate that. Thanks. Yeah. Okay. Before we move on, and | don't have any other questions other than one pre
submitted from David cafo, which we'll go ahead and answer, but he's not on the call. Did anybody have any tag on

questions or comments about any of that? Or a new question that popped up? Well, we were riffing.

Michael Meade 20:48

| had one rest, and | thought | submitted it. | don't know where it fell through the cracks. But my question was, and |
can kind of it might be related to the bug draw free comment is, what is the best way to help structure someone in a
real estate deal, in order for them to take advantage of the passive income or from the depreciation benefits when
they're bumping up against passive income loss limitations? If they don't have passive income? To help offset it? If
they're just a high w two earner? What are our options for something

Russ 21:23

like that? Okay, I’m gonna give that 100% to Mike and let you two accountants talk shop, and we're just gonna listen,

aA Acl ree AAA
accelerated depreciation, you're going to have depreciation recapture in the future, which wouldn't be taxed at
ordinary rates. So you get to offset the depreciation recapture with those losses. And that's one of the big things that
surprises investors, when they get their exits, if it wasn't communicated up front, is that whole concept of
depreciation recapture, they think it's all going to be treated as capital gain long term capital gain. And suddenly
they get hit in with ordinary rates? Well, if they have these losses to carry forward or new losses generated from
investments in the current year, you know, in the future, your current year when the exit actually occurs, then they can
offset that ordinary income component of depreciation recapture as well. But | would also caution, according to the
Green Book, we don't know that there's going to be a beneficial long term capital gains tax rate in the future either
right now, according the Green Book, somewhere either over 400,000 up to a million dollars, they're asking Congress
to tax capital gains as the highest ordinary tax rate, plus the net investment income tax or the Obamacare tax, we're
talking a total tax rate of 43.4%, on what we used to call long term capital gains. So again, | think in the future in our
current environment, assuming some of these things are going to happen, they're still extremely valuable to carry for
that answer that question, Michael?

Michael Meade 27:28

Yes, it does. | appreciate it. You bet.

Russ 27:30

All right, good stuff. So | have a couple thoughts on all of that. In Of course, | always have to flip everything back to
marketing, because everything's marketing. One of the advantages we have in a program like this is we have a
bunch of little syndicators, who are just trying to figure out, you know, which way is up. And you know, these types of
meetings give you an opportunity to get exposed to some ideas and some thoughts you might not otherwise come
across until many months, many years in your own personal journey. So that's part of the compressing timeframes.
The other thing is, excuse me, is I'm understanding that, when you have someone like Mike Pyne available, the
challenge is going to be you know, you can't, like Mike can't sit here and talk to every single one of your clients. Right,
that doesn't make sense. But, but one of the things that we can do, Mike, maybe this is something we can talk about,
is that if we have a group of people out there that are syndicated, we say, Hey, we want to put together a piece of
training a piece of content, where we're going to comment on this. So we'll bring it in Mike and Mike, you can explain
the value of this carry forward loss, and maybe some case studies, some examples. And then everybody in the club,
everybody can invite everybody on their list that might fit into that category, and have them watch this piece of
content that we create, now you get a lot of bang for your buck, they come with something that's completely unique.
And, you know, and then and then hopefully, we end up ultimately, the ultimate goal is to help people, we help
people figure it out. And of course, you know, as people begin to have this idea that, gee, | want these losses, well,
how do | get them? Well, | got to | got to invest in this, these deals that have these kinds of losses. So that's that's one
thing. So just remember, every problem you face is the flip side is an opportunity. You just have to think about how
can | use this and not just on a one on one try to always think about is when my brain just automatically goes, how
can | lever this? How can | How can | solve use use what I'm learning? How can | use what | have access to and help
more people for less quicker? Right, that that's the key. | think the other part of it is just realizing how much flexibility
you have and the way you structure your deals. So | was having this conversation offline with Jim Griffin earlier
today. And you know, a lot of times people just they they they don't really understand how to put syndication deal
together, they look at an a very, very simplistic, and | don’t mean that it needs to be more complicated than it needs
to be. But | just think that there's a lot of benefits that a deal could have for a lot of different people. If you just knew
how to kind of slice and dice the deal up. Now, those of you may not know, Jim, Jim's in the note business. So you
know, anybody in the note business knows that a note is not a collection of you know, say on a 30 year note 360
payments. So what it seems like, but in the real world, it's not like that at all. Because there’s charges and you can

buy the first five years, you can buy the middle five years, you can, | mean, you can you can buy pieces of it. You can
slice and dice this thing, depending on what you're trying to accomplish for the particular investor, syndication deals
investors, that could be a great way to go. Right? Where you get stuck into compliance is if you start having, you
know, you start trying to do you know, reg B stuff, and you don't have pre existing relationships with these non
accredited investors and all sudden people find out that you found them through some public medium. So | think
that if you're going to go down the path of using a public medium, as a way to develop an investor list, you're going
to definitely want to focus on accredited investors, and then rely upon networking that you create, like Brad some
rock creates networking events, where he invites people and he puts them through training. You know, we did that for
years and years, 10 years, we had an investor training program, and people would come in and we teach them how
to get, you know, their finances organized and learn how to approach real estate. And then they get to the place
where they became accredited, investing in real estate. And all of that was done in private club meetings. And, you
know, zoom, well, we would do it zoom calls today. But, but you know, you'd have these private meetings. And then
you just needed to make sure that anything you offered, those folks didn’t come into existence until after you'd
already could easily document through their membership agreement that you had a pre existing relationship with
them. It's so much easier today than it used to be. So there's that part of it. The only thing I'll add to that is that if
you do decide to go down the path of creating a network of companies that kind of work together, like Windows
marketing, Windows legal one does tack, one does due diligence, you can start to parse things up, you know, there's
a lot of other things that you should take a look at, if you're going to go to all that trouble. And he some of them in
his asset protection perspective where you squirrel away intellectual property and keep it separate from where you're
using it. The other part is to be able to move things around and tax jurisdiction so that you have it more favorably
treated depending on which component it is, you know, IP is a great one that a lot of tech companies are famous for
moving into Tech's into low tax jurisdictions, and then they're able to, to to send income there through licensing fees
and create deductions in a high tax environment and, and then create income and in a low or no tax environment.
And so you can get a little sophisticated. The other thing is is depending on how you set up the entities if they're not
passed through and they're being taxed on their own Now you can set up offsetting tax years, where you have
different fiscal years. And so somebody's fiscal year might end June 30. And another one, you know, might end,
December 31, and other one might end March 31. And then you can move expenses and income around kind of time,
when and where you pay those taxes, depending on what you're trying to accomplish. So those are more
sophisticated strategies, I'm not trying to complicate the matter. All I'm saying is, if you're going to go to all the
trouble to set up a multi entity structure for the purpose of facilitating your your business operations, and maybe
turning up a cost center into a profit center is, is just be aware that, that when you start having these multiple entity
structures, it’s worth putting a little extra time and really understanding how to use them strategically. So again, |
don't know, Mike, if you want to tag on any of that, not to muddy the water, but | just thought that we kind of
touched on it. And | wanted to make people be aware of it. So that, you know, when they get to that point, at least
they have that in the back of their mind, something they could be thinking about.

Mike Pine 16:10

Now, | thanks for bringing that up. For us, it's a great point to bring up. And it's going to get more and more
important in the very near future with the new tax laws that are coming out. They're trying to create international tax
agreements that were basically 138 countries have agreed on a framework where they're going to share all of their
income tax information among other countries. But that leaves out a lot of other countries that aren't in agreement
with it. So | think it's going to be more important than ever to be focused on optimizing through different tax
jurisdictions. And again, your attorneys are going to play a huge role in that as well as your tax advisers.

Russ 16:46

And the more you learn about it, the more value you can bring to a fluent people who are all struggling with the
same problems. Right? All sudden, you bring these out of the box ideas and a team that can help people execute it.
Now all of a sudden, you have the opportunity to bring up something that their advisors aren't even talking to them
about because they're not proactive. Number two is is you have the opportunity to kind of move them away from an
ee eee

space, and I'm going to buy more office space than | need, I'm going to rent out the excess so that I'm in for free, if |
need bookkeeping services, I'm going to, I'm going to have more than | need and sell the overage if | have, you know,
marketing, whatever, it has always been kind of my mo doesn't always work that way. But it's the first thing | think of
so when | met Robert, | was in the mortgage business. And Robert was in the real estate brokerage business, he really
hadn't gotten into the development business, neither of us was in the syndication business. And he had a seminar
company that he was using his marketing for his real estate company under a separate brand. That was first time |
kind of got exposed to that idea. And | thought, Oh, this is great. And we actually turn to that, that that marketing
department. Not it went from being kind of a loss leader that paid for itself to real major profit center, so much so
that, you know, in the wake of 2008, we shut the brokerage business down and the mortgage business down and
kept the marketing company and turned it into the real estate guys radio show. And everything that you guys now
know today was basically just the marketing department. So structurally, how you choose to set that up depends on
the relationship you want to have between your main syndication business and your marketing company. So there
are going to obviously be tax consequences. But | think even before you go there, there's also going to be the legal
consequences. So you're gonna wanna have a consultation with your securities attorney. And understand that if
you're doing things as a marketing company is an independent brand from your syndication company, then you may
not be under the same level of scrutiny depending on how much of a firewall you have. So that's really not attack.
Question or bookkeeping question, it’s going to be a legal question. And the reason | bring it up is not to steal any of
Mike's thunder. But the reality is, is the accounting team comes in, they put a accounting structure on top of a legal
structure. And if you don't have the legal structure figured out, then you kind of put your accounting team behind the
eight ball because they can't really build an accounting system. So you're going to have how the money flows. In
other words, if you are out there marketing, then you have revenue, coming in, through advertising through events
through all that like like we do, then that's its own profit center, and it's its own, you know, has its own expenses, and
it has its own set of rules, then it has a relationship with your syndication business. And that's a business relationship.
And then you have to figure out what that business relationship is, from a legal perspective from a compliance
perspective. And then you have to put an accounting structure on top of that, to support that business relationship.
Now, if you just decide to make all of these things that you're doing part of your business, just a marketing
department for your main syndication business, that's fine. And then it’s probably from an accounting perspective, a
lot easier to deal with. But from a compliance perspective, it’s going to be a lot more difficult to deal with because
everything you do on that medium could potentially be considered advertising for your syndication company. And if
you have alter egos, where it’s like, okay, you know, you have two entities basically owned by the same people that
are operating in two different functions could be more form over substance. In other words, if it's, you know, Alex
owning 100% of the syndication business, and Alex owning 100% of the podcasting business, and the two businesses
are separate legal entities, but basically the same person that's different, we've always made sure that the ownership
structure is actually a little bit different. And so that they cannot be considered to be just alter egos to each other,
they're literally different businesses with different ownership structures, different profit centers, and then we've always
made sure that we had outside business, you know, we have more, more people. In fact, you guys know, we don't use
the real estate guys in any way, shape, or form to promote what anything we do in syndication, with the exception of
Billy's field trips, and we were doing Billy's field trips before we were doing Billy syndication. And even then, we never
talked about mahogany Bay, or anything we're doing in Billy's on the real estate guys, we keep a real distance
between the two of them for all the reasons that | just mentioned. So that's a little bit of my opening commentary.
Michael touched you. Do you have anything you want to add to that?

Mike Pine 07:43

Absolutely. So thanks, Ross for offering all the legal information, because I'm not allowed to advise or offer any type
of way, neither

Russ 07:51
bullet points, but based on who he’s sending those emails to those bullet points are very different. And it speaks so
much louder, more loudly to those who receive those emails, because they're talking to their problem. They're talking
to the same problems that those guys are waking up with trying to figure out how do | solve this? Bam, there's an
email and the first bullet points exactly what I'm looking for. So | think it's an absolutely amazing strategy. Russell, |

see it working.

Russ 41:11

Yep, it definitely works, definitely works, you know, but came through this program, we can't, we can't take credit for
everything he’s done. fact, we probably can't take credit for much of it. But, you know, we want to know how to build
a successful podcast, and he started out going down a path. And | remember doing the strategy consultation with
him like buck, this is your sweet spot, dude. Like, you know, you don't need to be running around there and trying to
put together apartment deals, like just that operators raise money and do a great job with your content, and you're
gonna crush it. And of course he does. His approach has been different than Dave Zook. Dave, Dave is just as big.
And Dave doesn't have any form of a podcast or, you know, he just runs around and speaks at third party events. So
don't you know, coming full circle back to you, Alex or anybody else, they're thinking about it, you know, you don't
have to be on a content creation treadmill. In order to use content, you can create targeted content, like what I'm
talking about where you identify a particular problem slash opportunity in, in this case, we're talking in the tax code,
and then you create a piece of content, a story around that, that is going to attract the interest of people that have
that problem. And then when you give them the right bait, and the right invitation, which is hey, let's have a
conversation. And maybe the first comment is could be free report could be watch this free video or, you know, order
this free report. And then once you've read it, then you can be on a live q&a with my guy. | mean, there's things you
can do that have nothing to do with having to bang out a podcast month in and month or week in week out. Right? |
know what that treadmills like, and | learned a long time. And you know, it's fun if you love it, but you gotta love it.
Because if you don't it’s it's it's it's a heavy lift. You know, some of us really enjoy the great conversations we have
with all the great people George gammon loves, it doesn't need it for the money. But he uses it as a tool to get into a
conversation with just about anybody he wants to talk to, and they just have a conversation, he records it and boom,
you know, and he's not even syndicating that I'm aware of. But anyway, my point is, is there's different ways to create
content. And tax is one of the best ways to create valuable content that will attract the right kind of people. And

that's kind of the theme of where we're this thing morphed into. Okay.

Mike Pine 43:34

| think now, it's it's important to know, there’s so much like you said, flux in the tax world, we all know, tax law is
changing. There's so much anxiety in high income earners and high net wealth, people that if you can stay on top of
the tax, | think the big message that I'm sending, and of course, I'm a tax nerd, and that's where | live and breathe as
in tax. But the big message to send is, every time taxes have been raised, every single time, more tax opportunities
have come up and have been created. So with anxiety, use that as a tool to reach out to your investors or your future
investors and say, we're on top of this, we're going to find out ways to mine the new opportunities that are coming
out. Yes, tax laws are changing, but that’s good, because that means there's new opportunities are gonna come. And

we're gonna leverage off of those as much as we can for investors, a whole lot

Russ 44:28

of shift is about to happen as people begin to move their money around in order to avoid what they see coming. And
the closer you are on the front end of that, and again, not just in terms of understanding it, but in terms of then once
you understand it going in crafting deals that are likely to mitigate the problem better than the average deal. And

then you'll attract your unfair share of capital, which is the name of the game. So again, your deals are capable of a
lot more than most of you realize. | just know this from experience. Dealing with many of you over the last however
many years and continue to pound on this drum, that the better you understand the tax benefits, all of the tax
benefits of the deal that you have in front of you, and develop those fully and then match those two people in your
database that have that tax problem makes the fundraising part a whole lot easier. When you look at guys like Eric
Shelley, you know, that are crushing it and the same thing, they figured they cracked the tax code, and that’s why
they're raising a lot of money, the vast majority of people who raise gobs of money have figured out the tax part. So
take that for what it's worth. Okay, so any other questions from the gang here? We still got a good participation.
Anybody else got something that popped into their head? They want to take advantage of Mike. Well, he’s free. And
here. Don't be shy.

to) Mike Pine 45:51

love to answer. Yeah.

© Russ 45:56

Because | won't | won't hold him. You know, if we don't have things you want to allocate? I've got one. Okay. Sure.
Sure. Sure. Yeah, for a

oO Alex Petkas 46:03

second one. So what are the tax deductions for starting a new venture before there’s revenue? And you know,
because I'm spending all this money to know, not just the mic, but at various expenses for launching a podcast like,
how do | deduct those? That's a great

© Mike Pine 46:25

question, Alec. So technically, the IRS says until you've actually started your business until you are actively seeking
income, any expense that you spend is in quote unquote, a startup costs, which is not supposed to be deducted until
you've actually started services. But what does it mean to actually have started your business, if you are seeking a
way you don't have to achieve it. But if you are seeking a way to bring in revenue to earn money, and you're actively
doing that, you have a channel open that can somehow if you get the right buyer, if you get the right, the right
member, send revenue, your way you're actively in business, and more cases than not, if you're starting up a business,
you can make a good argument, and I'd be happy to chat with you about it and your particular case. But you can
make a good argument that you aren't in the startup phase, you're in the business phase, and you're just trying to
improve it and tweak it and invest more into it. That answer your question.

@& Alex Petkas 47:23

super helpful. Yeah. Awesome.

© Mike Pine 47:27

| think it was a question from David Kafka. Do you want me to Yeah,
July 7, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on
Accounting and Ta...

@ Tue, 9/217:25PM © 59:46

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, tax, deal, syndication, business, investors, understand, create, loss, opportunity, income, problem, mike, talking,

tax code, money, question, syndicator, started, real estate

SPEAKERS

Michael Meade, Russ, Alex Petkas, Mike Pine

) Russ 00:16

Hey, syndication veteran club, it is Russ. And we're here for it looks like our July 2021 edition of Ask the mentors. And
today we're talking accounting, and tax and bookkeeping and all that kind of fun stuff. So big, big part of the
business we're in, obviously is collecting money, managing money, distributing money reporting on money. And it's
the part of the business most of us hate aren't really any good at. And yet, it’s really an opportunity to make it a big
competitive advantage if you if you let it. And so I'm happy that we have our resident expert Mike pine CPA on with
us Hey, Mike, how you doing? Good, very happy to be here. Thanks for us happy to have you and you've pulled a
crowd. So that's good. And | was just commenting before we hit the record button that I'm still recovering from
having been gone for the summit, | know that the summit probably feels like it kind of came and went. But for me it
It started three days before | left, then | left on the 10th. And then it officially started on the 11th or 12. And then |
didn't get back till the 22nd and came back for a few days and had a lot of trying to catch up to do but my body
decided it didn't want to do anything but rest. So that’s what I've ended up doing. So if | seem a little
discombobulated, it's because | am. And that's okay. So let's just jump right into it. So let's see. Alex, are you on? Let's
start with you, Alex, you had a question? So let me Let's see your your should be good to go. Okay, so you're good to

go. So go ahead and ask your question.

& Alex Petkas 01:51

Let me pull it up here. So basically, | was wondering about starting a new, a new element of my business that will
support the main business, but I'm starting a couple marketing projects. That's a podcast that | hope will also
generate its own revenue. Sure. And I'm wondering how to, like the entity choices of thinking a few steps ahead.
Taxation as a partnership and S Corp. And kind of my specific question is, like, as I'm getting ready to review all of
the stuff that | should know better and have read about at one point, should | be anticipating anything changing in
the next few years? So | guess that’s two questions in one, but I'll let you take it from there. If that’s clear enough,

@ Russ 02:48

well, let me try to interpret a little bit and then I'll toss it to Mike. So you know, | think a lot of times, I'm a big believer

of evervthina should be a profit center. So | don't like havina cost centers. You know. if I'm aoina to. if | need an office
GD Mike Pine 59:29
Thank you. Thanks.
Uy

MIKe FINe€ ZI:29

that's a great question my gun, we're seeing a lot of people that that have that issue. So you can offer all the
accelerated depreciation in the world to your investors. But if they if they don't have the ability to take it, then either
you have to explain what the where the value still lies, even though they don't take it immediately that year, or you
have to help them find strategies so they can take it. If they're truly passive in the investment, and they're not
qualified real estate professionals or they don't qualify some kind of active material participant in that specific type
of activity, then any losses generated do become passive activity losses. But what we've worked with the syndicators
and help explain to a lot of potential investors is even though a passive activity loss might get suspended or not be
able to be utilized that year, it still has a tremendous amount of value, it's valuable, you've got a loss carry for that
can offset any other passive income in the future. If you file the right aggregation elections on your tax return, when
eventually you do exit the deal, which is a lot of cases, the ultimate plan in four to seven years, you've got this loss
that can offset your gain. But ultimately, for them to be able to utilize it immediately. And this year, they've got to
have some ability to say the material participants in that type of activity. We've seen some syndicators kind of carve
out different parts of the business of the syndication, where it’s a little aggressive, | would say, but | don't think there's
anything wrong with being aggressive with the tax code, as long as you know, what your risks are, and as long as
you're covering your assets as much as you can, and just be willing to defend your positions. But we're some have
carved out part of their businesses that are generating the depreciation in areas where those w two owners can can
make a good valid argument, hey, we're actively participating in this type of business. You have to you have to work
hard with your attorneys to work the operating agreements out to offer him, the pom out the memorandum out to
where it spells it out, clearly, you have to create different classes, the investment, there are ways to mine that. But
ultimately, unless they're willing to get aggressive, you just have to really focus on why it's valuable to have this big
loss care for him. It's basically a net operating loss that can eat up taxable income in the future. And in today’s day,
when we know tax rates are going up, we know that rates are gonna go up whether it’s on capital gains, whether it's
on passive income, it is good to have a loss carry forward, it's more valuable going forward than it would be if you
could even use it today for a lot of people that are stuck in the passive investor status. So | would say push the value
of this passive activity loss, it’s like a net operating loss carry forward and it really does have value in the future. For a
lot of like, a lot of the people that are involved in the syndication and raising money if they can be considered
material participants in the activity. I've heard and seen so many cases where their tax advisors or their attorneys
told them, there's no way for you to have basis to take these losses. You can't have a negative capital account. | hear
that over and over again. And that's simply not true. There's opportunities to mine that for the people that cannot
qualify as active participants. Some of them come with some risks. Some of them don't come with risk, but it takes a
it's harder to sell to your syndicate or to your investors. But there are opportunities there. So just because someone
says you can't take the depreciation, | would really dig into that and see why why can't you do it and Are you sure
There's not some value that even if you can't take it against your W two income this year, are you explaining how
valuable it really is today and for the future? Yeah, yeah,

Michael Meade 25:13

| was gonna bounce one thing off, do you have something you said is are you finding it very beneficial if I'm carrying
forward a passive activity loss, which is just ordinary income. And then you're one of the things you mentioned, is
applying it to the eventual gain from the sale of the asset, which would be capital gains income, which is generally a
lower tax rate. I'm then using my loss that | can use at a higher tax rate Tom setting game that is taxed at a lower

Mike Pine 25:39

level. Yeah, obviously, | yeah, | get your question. | think what you're saying is, hey, if | have depreciation, accelerated
depreciation that's active trader business loss that could offset ordinary income versus capital gains income when
you eventually sell the property? How do | say how can | make the argument that’s still more valuable to us in the
future, obviously, it's better to offset ordinary income with an ordinary loss. But if you're taking a bunch of
Russ 47:29

yeah. So someone has invested in a syndication with a self directed IRA if the financing is seller financing, is there
ubit tax still, so I'm not a tax guy, but my gut says financing is financing but what's a you?

Mike Pine 47:43

It is so in the self directed IRA, and | assume everyone has been introduced by YouTube Damian Lupo and his EQ RP
is right. Yep. If not reach out to him. The IRA tax code that is a different code that covers 401, K's and any type of IRA
is subject, you bet taxes any type, especially if there's finance, if it's step finance and seller financing is still financing,
financing and financing. So it does open you up to potential, you get taxes, but there’s no reason to keep yourself in
a situation where you're losing part of your investment growth. Because you're paying ubit unrelated business income
tax, there's no reason to do it because there's a solution. And Russ has found that with Damien Lupo and his EQ RPS,
and they're actually part of the 401k tax code, they can be completely self directed. I've learned a lot about them
and talking about Damian lately. They're these beautiful, beautiful things that you convert can convert any type of
IRA into one of these, you no longer have a ubit issue and you actually have more freedom on the app type of assets
you can hold and the amount of self direction you can actually take a self directed IRA has a lot of limits with how
well how you can direct the money EQ RP is or this beautiful new thing to me, they're not that new to to us, and
probably you guys, but they are incredible ways to avoid you bet and to open up the possibilities of what you can
invest in the type of assets that you can hold. So if you're in a self directed IRA, and you're looking at debt financed

property, whether it’s seller finance or any other finance, consider doing a conversion into an EQ Rp.

Russ 49:25

So you guys can probably tell that you can know things that even people quote unquote, who are experts in the
business don't know. Right? Because it's just there’s too much to know. There's just too much to know. So Damien,
found this little piece of the world. And he mastered it. | mean, he made it his thing. He figured it out, and he's
become the go to guy to where he's educating. CPAs. So, this goes, man, yeah, this goes back to what I've been
saying. So you can find the Little esoteric pieces of of knowledge. You know the story, if you ever get chance to hear
it, I'll tell it the nickel tour. Way back at the very beginning of my relationship with Robert, | understood the concept
of not being Waldo. And so what | would do is | go into Amazon and | would look for people and ideas that were not
mainstream. And | did a search on real estate and | went through there was | don't know, two or 3000, you know,
answers returned to this was back in 2001. And | dug all the way through and | found a book on how to invest in real
estate in a self directed IRA, and the book was $150. And | said to myself, I'm going to buy that book. Because that
sounds like a really cool idea. And the vast majority of people out there aren't going to buy the book. And I'm going
to end up knowing something the vast majority of people aren't willing to invest in, and I'm going to know it. And so |
found the guy who Brahma, and he was based in Oakland, | went up to an all day seminar that he didn't learn
directly from Mr. Wilde. This is really cool. And trust with the original interest way, way, the very, very beginning. And |
called Robert, | said, Hey, we should have this guy come to a seminar for us. And so we did we booked a seminar, fill
up a room now, a couple 190 been a couple 100 people, probably 7080 people. And this guy came, and he spoke for
free, and we charged like 99 bucks. So you know, we made a couple grand, or whatever it was. No, it was more than
that. But anyway. But it turned out to be a super, super hot topic. And there were so many people that had no idea.
So this continues to exist. So if you know i fact | just got my 2021 updated, | got three copies of the Damian's latest
SD | mean, EQ RP book for 2021. And I'm going to be doing a book study on it with my, my bookkeeping team, so
that they understand it. And | just think that again, this is this is a book that if you spend time reading, and really
understanding, then you're going to be able to go out into the world and know that people who are out there that
are actively doing syndications that are supported by CPAs, like Mike who specialize in people doing syndications.
And you may end up knowing things they don't know. Which means you can ask questions don't tell It’s never good
Or even better, you've got debt side, you've got the equity side, you've got the asset protection component, you've
got these losses that are potentially available to some people, but not to other people. And the more you understand
about the financial problems that your prospective investors have and are trying to solve, and the more you
understand about all of the different ways your deal could be structured to solve those problems, you might have
four or five different sub demographics of investors, that could all fit into one deal. If the deal was big enough, where
somebody is looking for income, so I'm just looking for privacy, somebody's seeking for capital gains, | was looking
for tax break, and you could have all of that available, just depending on how you organize the deal. And this is
where having somebody like Mike involved, not after the fact after you figured the deal out, or after you're out there,
and you're pitching people, and then you run into tax problems, but being on the very proactive side of how do you
use your CPA, to actually structure your deal to bring the kind of benefits that you need to the particular
demographic that you have. So with Alex's call, we had mentioned that, you know, Buck Joffrey invited everybody in
his listening audience who was accredited to sign up for a free consultation. And the purpose of that initial
consultation was to get to know the person on an individual basis and kind of profile them and understand what is
their situation? Where's their pain point? So they have an asset protection problem? Do they have an estate planning
problem? Do they have a tax problem? Do they have a capital gain problem to their privacy, kind of problems that
they have? And then once you begin to profile that, then you say, Okay, I've got a database of people that fit into
these different categories. Now | got a deal come in, how can | structure this deal to appeal to the the majority of
people in my database? How can | organize this? So Mike, since | brought that up, and | gave you a little bit of time
to think about it? Can you just talk a little bit about if or how, and | didn’t mean to volunteer for something you're not
willing to do? Not on the content side, because I'm quite sure you'd be willing to do that. But But talk to us a little bit
about, you know, a syndicator coming, they haven't put the deal, they've got an idea for a deal. Right. And they
haven't figured out you know, | always say just figure out how much meat is on the bone, which sounds simple. But,
you know, like, like Jim's project is a development project where I'm going to acquire the land, and then | got to
entitle the land, and then I'm going to go and get everything permit and get it built. And then I’ve got, you know,
takeout or stabilization, management equity, there’s a whole bunch of things that happen in the lifecycle of a
development deal. You can get people on the bus or off the bus anywhere along the line, you can structure debt
equity, all kinds of different things. Is there a role for you as a CPA, on the front end of the deal, where someone is
kind of looking at the raw material of what a deal is, and is trying to figure out? How can | structure this to benefit a

specific demographic that has this specific type of a tax problem?

Mike Pine 33:48

Absolutely. | think he you clarified a very well, if you can, categorize or profile your potential investors. And you'll
probably find if you've got a group of people or a network, there's four or five or six different needs or problems that
one deal could solve if you slice and dice it correctly. So figure out what their issues are exactly like rest of the buck
did was go and spend the time and invest with her investors and spend the time to learn what do they need, what
problems are they facing? What benefits are they looking for, and one deal can be split up in so many different ways.
We saw the syndicator do seven different classes in an LLC before | even got to the waterfall part of the agreement
to be able to share the depreciation to those who could actually take it while increasing the potential exit and the
carry for those in the future who couldn't take the losses or didn’t want the losses, but they were just looking for long
term wealth creation. While there are other people who were looking to shelter some capital gains and by creating
all the different classes, if we know what your investors want, or if you have an idea of the pool of potential investors
You want to market to, we can create a deal that benefits them all. | mean, that's what all of us want to do besides
be successful. And | think that's on the back end is we want to help as many people as we can. And the more people
we help, the more benefits that we can help people find, the better off, we'll all be, you know, rising tide raises all
ships, right. And we want to do that. And there are opportunities to help people in so many different areas, you just
need to know what your target market is and what their needs are, and what their problems are. Because you can
solve a lot of those with the deals that you're contemplating and make.
am | but | do it anyway. In the privacy of our own club,

Mike Pine 07:55

you're able to say a lot more than | can. But | agree with everything that Russ has said | would talk with your attorney
and make sure you've got your legal liability protected as much as possible. On the accounting side, we help the
attorneys do that and keep separate envelopes, so that your businesses are protected from any liability that might
happen in one from the other. And we help do that by keeping separate books and records and walking you through
not commingling assets. And those are all the things that the attorney suggest that we do. But from an accounting
and tax perspective, generally, as long as it’s a pass through entity, unless you're creating a C Corp that will pay its
own tax, generally speaking, any income tax liability generated from your business is going to pass through to your
personal tax return, or whatever your state planning and liability protection planning is it'll pass through to whatever
entity ultimately pays the tax. And we used to and still do, but | think this is going to change soon would recommend
S corporations if you're the sole owner, because we were able to shield a lot of a lot of your income from self
employment taxes. So if you have just an LLC or some kind of partnership, where you have a gpn limited partnership
interest or something, you potentially are subject to self employment tax, which is that Social Security, Medicare, or
otherwise known as FICA tax on everything you make. By doing an S corp, we're able to set a reasonable wage, and
anything above and beyond that you just take out as distributions, you only pay normal income tax, you don't pay
the self employment tax. However, the administration just last month released what they call the Green Book, and
that is what the administration is publicly acknowledging that they're asking Congress change in the tax legislation
and the tax law. And one of those things is they want to get rid of that, for lack of a better term loophole of creating
an S corp to shield from self employment taxes. So an S corp might not be as recommended in such a situation. As it
has been in the past until we see the actual law laid out, which we're not going to be able to figure out a way around
it, I'm sure there will be a way around it to maintain compliance with the IRS. But there's no way the IRS can tax
every dollar of income and self employment tax and they want to crank up the rates and self employment tax to
where you would pay social security on potentially a lot more money than right now you pay it at the cutoff is about
138k. So that’s one thing to consider. And again, with, with the new upcoming tax law changes, a lot of what | might
advise now might change. But generally speaking, | like LLC is the most because if we want to we can always do a
retroactive s election. So if it becomes an issue, you can, but with LLC, if you generate losses during the year, you're
not limited by tax basis issues. So with s corpse, you're limited and taking losses if you're able to generate a good
taxable loss, which is a great tax benefit. Hopefully, you're still cashflow positive, though. So again, | think legal, you
need to talk to your attorney first, like Russ said, figure out what makes the best sense from a legal perspective, a
liability and asset protection perspective, as well as if you've got a syndication business, you got to be careful with
what you're saying on your mentoring show or on your podcast versus what you're doing in your syndication
business. But you can legally separate that once you do that. Talk with the accounts before you sign on, finalize and
sign any documents and create your entities just to make sure it's tax optimized. But then the accountants and the
CPAs can help you put your accounting footprint or your accounting processes and procedures on top of whatever
you create from a legal liability perspective need.

Russ 11:42
Yeah, | think | think Alex in for really everybody is you can take a look at buck Joffrey, who kind of came through this

program, he decided that he wanted to be a syndicator and came to the secrets of successful syndication, he
decided he'd already started a podcast that was going to be his mo for lead gen. His target market was his avatar
himself a high paid professional with a tax problem, lots of money, no time and freight of being ripped off. And so he
he did a great job with all of that, and he took his, his podcast, and then he built an audience around it, then he
created an investor club. So for accredited investors, he would do a consultation meet with you one on one, you
know, over the phone, get to know you a little bit and then you could join his club. And once you're in his club,

because you're an accredited investor, he could show you stuff. And of course, if you're only dealing with accredited
