our demographic is, they're just slinging stuff, hoping they're going to get the time of day. But what they did was
waste my time. So not only do | not feel good about their brand, | don't like them. And so make sure you play those
cards kind of carefully. So those are lessons that kind of work on both sides. The other part of it is that, you know, at
the trade show, | looked to put people together. And so | tried to find influencers that want to get together with other
influencers, and | put them together. So | had an opportunity to do that. And | don't want to get into you know the
weeds of all of this because it’s kind of hard to explain. But the point is, is that if you look at our history, Robert and I,
we introduced Peter Schiff to Robert Kiyosaki, we introduced G. Edward Griffin, to Peter Schiff, and Robert Kiyosaki.
We have been successful at bringing eclectic groups of people together. Now you can do the same thing. This
afternoon. I'm doing a precious metals webinar with a guy named Bronson Hill who's a syndicator been trying to
recruit him into the program. But the guy is cleverly he invested in coming in on the summit. He's invested in
promoting us. | did a did a webinar with him previously with George gammon and right after the summit and with
Jason Hartman. And it was great. And it was, it was a good exposure for me. And | was happy to do it. He played his
cards, right. He showed up, built the relationship came to Gauls came to sauce came to the summit, you know, and
then made the ask, so he played his cards really well. Today, I'm doing it with Brian London and Dana Samuelson.
And we're gonna be talking precious metals. So this is a guy who isn't in the syndication mentoring club program, but
he's been able to get the same level of support that | would normally give somebody in the program, because he's
been very supportive of other parts of the real estate guy's program, and he's played his cards really well. And yet,
I'm pretty sure he probably met Brian London and Dana Samuelson, through our event. And and so how much
exposure Are we really getting? | don't know, how much credibility are we bringing to his brand by showing up on his
platform? Probably some. And so I'm watching him work and he's doing a great job. And I'm a sucker for good
technique, right? If somebody's using good technique, good sales technique, good marketing technique, good
networking technique, | want to reward them just for doing a good job. Just like if | get a waiter who's just crushing it.
I'm gonna tip big because | just love to see somebody that's just playing their cards right? And | want to reward them
because | love to see excellence in the marketplace. | don't think I'm the only person out there like it like that. So
when you think about you know going out into the marketplace or a controlled marketplace like a trade show ora
you know subculture ecosystem, if you will, like real estate investing, and social media, you know, the kind of the
world we all live in, we're easy to find each other. Really think about your positioning, really think about your
approach, think about how you're going to stand out from all of the the also RANS that are out there just slinging
mud. And | can tell you because so many people are bad. It's actually really good. Really easy to be to be good. So
I'll stop monologuing there for a little bit. And Stacy, do you have any comments or questions or any comments on
any of that?

©) Staci Gray 39:23

nothing really to add | agree completely that we | mean coming from the standpoint you talked about you
approaching people | have experienced from like the real estate guys standpoint, a lot of people coming to us
wanting to be on the show or wanting time with Russ or Robert and obviously as as OTS runs the real estate guys, we
are a buffer for a lot of that. And | can tell you that we have people come in really hot and heavy. And it seems as if
they're going to be something different and then they make promises they can't follow through on and we have
become more guarded about not saying yes to people and really doing a lot more due diligence because there are a
lot of people that seem shiny, but then they actually don't have substance. So it's an i anything by nature, everyone
we attract has a lot of substance and a lot of character and a lot of value. It's just about packaging that up in a way
that is going to put you in the right position for the right audience. It is a long game, not a short game. So a lot of the
best relationships we have took years and continually being in front of them. It wasn't just a one time pitch, it was the

farmer mentality, not the hunter mentality.

© Russ 40:40

Ben, you have any questions, comments on any of that?
life situations and scenarios and help you get unstuck. And then we continue to build a really powerful, relevant
library that all of you are going to be able to access and continue to learn from for, you know, weeks, months and
years to come. So thanks, everybody for being here. And we'll call this a wrap. Thank you very much.
Hey, I'll turn the recording off, right now let's just have a conversation, we can turn it back on and finish when we're
talking more generically. And then you have to have some form of data, some form of a database. And you know, in
the beginning, you know, you don't have to be fancy, you literally can just have a, you know, a file folder with your
handwritten notes, and and begin to profile. And then you begin to start to ask yourself some basic questions. And
you can look at the checklist on the refa, or the investor registry page on real estate guys, where we have just kind of
that profile where we're talking about, are you accredited or not accredited? What are your timeframes? What are
your risk tolerance? What kind of products? Are you interested? What do you have experience in? | mean, you can
formulate your own list of interview questions, things that you want to get done. Now, you don't want to interrogate
somebody on one of those calls. Because you know, again, in the sales training, we talked about avoiding making it
feel like an interrogation, it's got to feel like a conversation. But you allow the questions to guide, the kind of curious
questions that you ask as you're fishing for information. And your goal is to keep them talking, and keep them talking
kind of within the realm of the topic of things that are likely to bring things out of their mouth, in their heart that are
going to fill in the blanks of the questions you're trying to answer. And then you have to realize that you may, it may
take two or three conversations. So you have to know at the end of that initial conversation, what is the follow up,
obviously, if you're going to make any recommendations, you're going to send them whatever, a link to a book, a
white paper, an introduction to a provider, whatever it is, you're going to do that. So you make sure that you follow
up and follow through because that tells them something about you how quickly and how well you do that is
painting a picture of who you are, and what it's like to do business with you when there's no money on the table. So
be very attentive to doing that. Well. The next thing is, what is the follow up? Are you going to follow up with them? |
would definitely stay in the driver's seat, you know, you may close just to have permission to follow up with them
somewhere down the road. And it could be something as simple Hey, you know, | what | hear you saying Ben is you're
interested in this, this, this and this and your portfolio or your timing, it'll solve these problems for you. | don't have
anything right now. But I'm going to go out and check in my network. And if | find something that looks like it'll meet
your need, I'll go ahead and get back with you. Does that sound like a plan? In other words, I'm assuming the close
and most people are gonna give me Yeah, sure. Now | have permission to follow up. And then | have to keep good
notes so that when | make the follow up, request, | say, hey, Ben, good news. | remember the last time we talked, you
mentioned you were interested in these things. And | ran into some folks or | found a deal, or I've got something that
looks like it'd be of interest to you. So let's get a call scheduled. In other words, | don't ask, | don’t ever ask like would
you like to? Or if you'd like to? Because that's a yes, no. And it's easy to say no, people generally tend to want to say
no, the only time | asked that tie down question where there's going to be no, is is in the form of Is there any reason
you wouldn't want to? Okay, and when they give me a no, it's a yes. And | let them play that card. But basically, | just
assume |’m assumptive Oh, hey, let's, let's schedule a call in the next week or two, here's the link for my calendar, or
I'll have my my assistant call and get you scheduled. Or here's some times that I've got open, let me know which one
works best for you, which is the alternative choice. The problem if you do that, and they they get take time to get
back to you, you may end up having booked it and then you end up in this back and forth. So you can experiment
with what you think works best based on the person you're dealing with older people, generally speaking, you're
going to want to have it handled a different way younger people are probably going to be a lot more. They're going
to be very comfortable doing a calendly and just booking online or whatever. So know your demographic. And you
can even begin to ask that question overtly on the front end. When you're developing a relationship with a client ask
them hey, how would you like to handle me to get together? How would you like to handle it and see what they say.
So again, the list goes on and on. But But the main point of that little section there that | hope everybody picked up
is first of all, you have to be obsessed with constantly asking yourself every day that you're awake and in the
marketplace. In a roomful of prospects virtually in your database, or in a conference or wherever, how can | help
them? How can | help them? How can | help them? How can | help them, that's number one. Number two is you need
to be obsessed with setting up your calendar so that you have time blocked to talk with people one on one. And you
need to be obsessed with filling up those those blocks every single week, every single week, you need to be talking to
investors, keep fantastic records, be diligent and professional about your follow up and follow through. And then
close every engagement with permission to follow up based on whatever came out of it. Either you may be want to
schedule the follow up directly, or at least get the conditional agreement that if you find something that they'd be
interested in, that they they would want to continue the dialogue and | think 99 times out of 100, you're going to get
a yes. If you don't, then you want to find out why say well, really, that’s surprising. | mean, it seemed to me from my
perspective, we had this great conversation, you've got these needs, you said they were important to you. If | could
show you a way to help, | would think you'd be interested. But for some reason, you're not so you know, no pressure
for me. But I'd like to understand, you know, is it like, do | have something in my teeth, you don't like the way primary
problem humor in there. But the point is, you're giving them permission to say, Well, you know, and who knew? Who
knows? | mean, back in the day when my wife was ill, it would be like, you know, | don't have time to think about any
of this, because I'm going through this personal crisis. Oh, my gosh, I'm so sorry, | had no idea. Right? Or, you know, |
gotta wait till | get on the other end of this. changing jobs and moving. | mean, people have stuff. So this goes back
to the idea of just remember, these are human beings, their lives are complicated. And you want to make sure that
you are, you know, being human, and not just being about the deal be about the relationship and care about them
as a whole person. Okay, | didn't realize how long | jammed. We're already at the top of the hour. So Stacy, any
closing combo? First of all, Ben, any any comments or questions about any of that, that you'd like me to clarify in like
30 seconds or less?

© Ben 1:02:01

Not, not from the clarification thing. But that's been the most valuable thing about the club and working with Stacey
has been, you know, you guys said it to me. And it took me I'm a slow learner. But I'm learning quickly. And I'm seeing

the results of that. And so if you don't feel like you've got something to say, say something and then figure it out.

© Russ 1:02:23

Yeah, yeah, it’s okay to get out over your skis. You know, that's how you learn, you know, especially when the
consequences of making a mistake are really not that big other than your own ego, get your ego out of the way,
you'll be fine. Stacey, any closing comments?

(s) Staci Gray 1:02:35

Yeah, | 1,000% agree with what you said, you get so much more clarity on your avatar, your messaging and your
positioning when you're just having conversations, and we say it all the time. But people feel so uncomfortable to do
it. And once you actually start doing it, it's not as bad as you thought it was. And you're gaining a lot more
confidence and clarity as you go. So | think this is great.

@ Russ 1:02:57

Yeah, well, the vast majority of people out there are afraid to do it. So if you do it, you're you're gonna outpace a lot
of your competition. And the more you do it, you're actually going to get good. And you've been given great training.
If you go through how to win funds and influence people, you know how to have a very effective conversation to
uncover those needs, wants, desires, goals and objectives in a human way. And if you follow the techniques, the
patterns and the principles, you will start to have success. And when that happens, you're gonna get momentum,
you're going to feel great. And one day you're gonna wake up you go, God, I’m good at this. And that says it should
be because the world needs people to be great at the sales side of the business, because without a salesperson
involved, most people will not change, even though they desperately want to improve their situation. So salespeople
provide a vital service to the society, and you want to be great at it. Rather than just out there slinging deals and
hoping something sticks. Okay, Kevin, I'm just going to leave you on mute. Thanks for being here. And | hear you have
something.
relationship, because they have another key relationship you're trying to get to, they're an influencer, or they have
access to an influencer, you're going to open a bigger database. So if you have an agenda that's a little bit bigger,
like, for example, with the firearms training group, | am pushing hard to get a big group out there in the fall, it's not a
secret what I'm doing, I'm making a big impression so that the owner of the school will take notice and draw closer, |
can draw closer to Him with the intention of being able to open up his database for his benefit, but also for the
benefit of all the people in my network. So if the people in my network are showing up big to that training, and | let
them know, this is what I'm doing, they're actually helping me get in a position to open up that database for them.
And so that's kind of what I'm talking about is understanding what the bigger agenda is, as far as prepping the the
provider on the the details of the deal. Clearly, you can talk about the details of your deal and share that with your
the person receiving the referral, there's nothing proprietary confidential about that. The part where you have to be
careful, is when you start talking about maybe knowledge that you have about your client's personal situation that
you think is relevant, but it may not be appropriate to share. So you just have to think through and | suggest putting
pen to paper, and kind of getting your notes before you make the referral. | would be very careful about putting
anything in email form, I'd make the introduction but | do the briefing by by telephone. That way, you're just not
leaving anything that somewhere down the road could end up being subpoenaed. And, you know, you you may have
no malice you know, in your heart or mind, but it doesn't mean that you won't say you know, say or do something in
writing that could end up being problematic. So | think that Mauricio would agree and you can check with him but
typically safer whenever you're talking about sensitive topics to do that orally and avoid anything in writing. It's, you
know, at least in my experience, better to be safe than sorry, plus, picking up the phone and actually having a real
conversation allows you to add the human element to your communication. If you do on a zoom call. You know, you
get to look at each other Eyes, you get to hear each other's tonality and see their facial expression. You don't get any
of that in an email. And nobody you know, as long as you don't record that, that video, it's just a wisp of vapor that is
two people communicating that goes away forever. And then it's just people's recollections of what happened. So |
tend to think it's safer anytime you're having sensitive conversations.

@) Staci Gray 20:22

So | was just gonna add something with all of these business syndicator businesses that we've been mapping a
recipe add it updated the 60s internally. So the one we added, you know, we have character, commitment,
consistency, capacity, competency, compatibility, and then we added credibility, because that's what we're really
talking about is building credibility within you, but also third party endorsing and building credibility with the other
people. So it's setting everybody up for success by creating credibility. Did you hear me what | said Russ? Yep. Okay.
Yeah.

© Russ 21:07

So where do you up to seven seas now?

@) Staci Gray 21:09

Seven Seas?

© Russ 21:10

Well, | didn't that | kinda | kinda like the seven seas sailing the seven seas? Seven Seas? Yeah. Yeah, you know, and |
talk all the time, | think about positioning. And you know, when | get into these stupid sales tricks, I'm not ready to go
there yet. But you see people taking their shot when they’re not open, if you remember from How to Win funds and
& Russ 25:26

Good, good, good, good. You know, and again, I'm about memorizing patterns and principles. And once you
memorize some basic patterns and principles, and behave according to those rules, you're going to be consistent,
and you're going to do the right thing more often than not. And then of course, when you consistently have a
problem, then you may have to revisit either your discipline to adhering to those patterns and principles. Or you may
have to revisit the patterns of principles, maybe you've got something that isn’t working or no longer works, because
maybe the marketplace changed or you changed or something. Or maybe it's so foreign to your natural personality,
you're asking yourself to do something that isn’t within the scope of how you can be authentic. And | think, you know,
part of it is you always have to be your true, authentic self. But the other part of it is, you want to make sure that
you're always constantly upgrading yourself so that when you are your true, authentic self, you're actually somebody
that is capable of attracting investors, focusing on the two major C's, which is character and competency. And then,

you know, you talk about commitment and, and capacity, and then credibility. And what's the other one stays?

© Staci Gray 26:34

consistency? Oh, yeah. consistency. Okay. capacity.

© Russ 26:39

Yeah. So let's talk a little bit about what happened at freedom Fest, because | think it's a big learn there. So | had
two booths | was running. One was the real estate guys, which is pretty low key, Robert. And | just set up a banner
stand, we put our microphones up, we put a couple of fliers out, one on the police field trip, and one on Robert and |
going to the firearms training. So Robert and | are going kind of is the part of the industry celebrities, if you will, that
are attending George gammon is going to the September one. So that's kind of cool. And Chris martenson and Brian
London, are attending the November one, and we're recruiting other folks as well. So | thought maybe some folks at
freedom fest would know those people and be interested in the opportunity to hang with them. So we put that over
on the real estate guy side, but my main job at the real estate guys is to run around and hustle up interviews for
Robert and try to figure out how to create value for the folks that we're looking for. So there's there's two parts to it.
One is, is is that when you're when you when you're in a trade show, or in a room, and you're able to see a little bit
about who's who and what they're doing, you have to ask yourself, why are they here? What makes their attendance
here a win. Some people are trying to raise money, some people are trying to get exposure, some people are trying
to you know, meet people. Sometimes their agenda is obvious and can be easily inferred based on how they're
showing up. Sometimes you have to get into a conversation. And so you know, we we were we were doing all of those
things. And then the other side of it is we're asking what is it that our customers need, in this case, our customers or
our listeners? And we're asking ourselves, okay, what what value can we bring here, if every single show is a
infomercial, or a pitch or something about engaging. After a while the audience starts to feel like every time they
tune in, they're just being teed up to buy something. And so when we go into these intellectual environments,
especially when we're going to get to see a lot of mainstream folks, we look for those man on the street interviews.
And so sometimes those Can, can open up. But it all starts with asking yourself the right questions. And so the thing
that you need to train yourself to do in any environment is to quickly see who's in the room, take a calculated guess
about what their priorities are. And if you think you've got an angle, or two or three angles of how you might be able
to help them which are all just assumptions. Then you engage and you start asking questions to see if you can clarify
your hypothesis. And because you've thought about it before engagement, you can concentrate on what the person
is sharing and listening to them, and then pivot off of kind of what you've already kind of already thought about
ahead of time. And so in the How to Win Friends and Influence People module and the old one has it The new one
that has been recorded, we'll have it as well. We talked about were you on the influencer worksheet, you say, okay,
who's the influencer. And remember, everybody's an influencer. Everybody has a network. If you remember the

picture of the guy with the, the binoculars with the dollar signs on it, if all you see is a transaction, if all you see is a
you know, hey, if you're aware of a problem with someone else in our provider network, go directly to that provider.
And again, maintaining professional discretion, but try to get to the bottom of it. And you've got a judgment to make
is this an anomaly is this somebody that had a bad day is this, you know, there's two sides to every story. And then
the third side, which is probably the truth, which is something in between, you're not there to take sides, you just try
to there to try to uncover the truth. If you do suspect that somebody is incompetent, or malicious, or you know, a bad
actor in some way, then there has to be a responsibility, a way to ratchet that up, you know, and in our organization
that buck stops with me, when people start to feel like there's something going on inside of our network, they can't
get resolved between the two of them, and | need to be aware of it, | make sure that there is a you know, red carpet
rolled out I'm very welcoming, of getting that kind of feedback, because our brand is only as good as the people that
are out there representing it. And even though they're operating under their own trade name, if you will, and their
own banner, the end of the day, if | refer them, their performance reflects on my brand. And my brand is only going
to be powerful in terms of that third party endorsement when | make the initial referral. So if we've got bad actors
anywhere in the network, that are diminishing my brand, my ability to support everybody in the network goes down.
So we're very attentive to every criticism that comes through every complaint that comes through. | typically
personally get involved in looking into all of those things. | don’t always hear about everything. | can always respond
as quickly as I'd like, depending on what I've got going on. But | definitely take it seriously. And Robert and |, you
know, convene from time to time when it gets to be, you know, even hairier or we might even go as far as pulling in
Mauricio, if it really gets hairy. We don't have that come up very often. But you do need to make sure that everybody
has a mutual responsibility to protect each other's brand. And you have to extract | think, a pretty strong
commitment from your players to say that they understand and they're willing to do that. And then you just have to
watch and see if they actually walk their talk and if they're Not then you got to jump in there and say, Hey, this is
what we talked about. This is what we agreed to. But it’s not what's actually happening as far as | can see helped me
understand your side of the story. And let's see if we can figure out a way to, to clean things up a little bit so we can
continue to collaborate for our mutual benefit. That makes sense.

Ben 15:19

Yeah, | think it's great. | think that having the mission vision values is huge. And also, my sample size at this point is
pretty low. But I’m just trying to implement basically a plan do review. And what what I've observed is like with my
specific deal, | didn't necessarily send the one pager the exact summary of the deal with the bio of the person that |
was referring, and | think that's something that can help. Because the feedback that | got from this week from this
particular investor was, hey, they were asking me questions like, was | signing on debt on this deal? Was | a general
partner, a limited partner, | don't even know what those things are. And so | kind of took that as | didn't prep, the
third party, if you will, in this case, well enough to understand, here's my deal. Here's the background of the investor.
And, you know, this is what they're looking for, you know, | only prep them, here's the background of the investor, this
is where they're at, but | didn't give them the context of of the particular offering.

Russ 16:26

Okay, so you know, where | went was basically kind of at the macro relationship level, and you're down at the
transactional level, where you're making a referral to a specific deal, which is fine. But the principle there is a good
one. And that is that when you do make a handoff, like passing a baton, it needs to be a clean handoff. And you
have to look at the situation through the two parties that you are introducing, you have to make sure that the
receiving party has some degree of clarity about why they're getting the referral, what a positive outcome looks like,
from your perspective, why you're making, | think, | may have said, Why you're making the referral. And, and then the
other thing is, is the in the endorsement goes two ways, right? You need to sell the client on the provider, but you also
need to sell the client to the provider. Now, it's an easy sell, but it is so because of that it's an easy thing to overlook.
But some of the best providers don't just take any client. And so you're gonna want to say, Hey, this is why this person
makes sense, you know, maybe their piece of businesses in particular big, but you know that you're working that
their questions are, | may have some things to share about that, that you'll find useful, too. So those are the two
things that | brought to the party, knowing that we didn't have any pre submitted questions. But, Ben, you had
mentioned that you had one. So why don't? Why don't you go first?

Ben 03:32

Great. Thank you guys. So one of the things that I've been working on hard with some of my investors is building
relationships across teams and pairing them up with people that | trust. And I'm working through some of it seems
obvious, but just wanted to have an open discussion on best practices as far as how to prep the folks that you're
getting ready to, to hand an investor off to like for asset protection or to create an LLC to invest into your deal. What
are some of the things to reduce friction and to build continuity is across teams that you guys recommend for

syndicators?

Russ 04:14

Okay. Well, that's a great question. And something we've been doing for a long time. People sometimes look at the
real estate guys is what is your business model, and it's building tribe and training. And we monetize our audience by
finding the things that they need, preparing them to engage with those needs. And then and then make those
introductions. So that's the kind of the sweet spot of our business model at the real estate guys. So | think first and
foremost, it starts with who you're aligning with. In the beginning, | was recruiting, vetting and orienting every single
person in the referral network. It's extremely time consuming and So one of the value ads that we've brought to the
mentoring club is the idea that we've done a lot of that work. And it's not the end all. And it’s not the be all, and it
isn't definitely the end of your responsibility. And you may decide that some of the folks that we have don't fit into
your world, and you got to find your own, and that's fine, but at least you have a starting point. So when we talk to
those folks, we first of all, just try to understand their business, we try to understand who their ideal client is, we try to
really understand the nuances of their services. We also try to understand any existing leads, groups or networks or
alliances, they're in to see if we're going to get bleed. | mean, if | take somebody from my world and put it on their
list, and they're promoting outside, then | need to be aware of that, number one. Number two is | need to establish
the rules of engagement, hey, if | put somebody on your list, don't be handing them off, outside, you know, I'm doing
this to tighten my influence not diluted. So you have to talk about that. | like to have the talk about mission vision
values, you know, what are we collectively trying to accomplish and servicing the clients? Number two is how do we
go about our business? In other words, what do we stand for? How do we do business? What are your core values?
When Robert and | originally got together, way, way back, and we started talking about mission vision values, we
articulated four basic values, the first one was, and remains relationships for life, we agreed that no transaction was
more important than the relationship we were relationship guys. And we entered into every relationship with the idea
that it would be long term this include included both our referral partners that people in our network, but it also
obviously included the clients themselves. Number two is team together, everyone achieves more. In other words, we
have to work together, there’s no my client, in our world, there is collectively the marketplace and each individual
within it that we are there to collectively serve, we need to work together as a team, we should never have that
person feeling like they're a piece of meat where two lions are fighting over them to see who's going to eat. There's,
you know, kind of inside of all that as a litmus test that Robert and | have, if we smell scarcity mentality and a
potential partner, it's a real yellow flag, and sometimes a deal killer, depending on how bad it is. So that's what team
is all about, we work together. The third one is growth is life. Meaning the idea that we're committed to accepting
feedback, constructive criticism, we are always looking at how we can scale our business. Because if we're
collectively going to work together to grow, and get more synergies in our marketing and outreach programs, we're
passing clients between each other and supporting each other according to team, we need to make sure that we
don't have capacity issues. And of course, Robert, and | have the ability to open up some pretty big databases and
generate a lot of leads. And so we really have to be attentive to that one. And we've had issues candidly in the past,
where we dump a lot of leads on somebody and they haven't scaled their business. And now we have to start looking
© Ben 40:45

Um, no, we can, we can potentially talk specifically about when to go and put your brand out at a trade show,

because that’s something that I've been wrestling with personally, as | tend to, and some of it’s my personality, but |
tend to be very slow and thoughtful, and going, experiencing, evaluating, then making a hypothesis and then going
back, but sometimes that may hinder my success as well, by just not, you know, making the commitment and going,

© Russ 41:20

Yeah, well, | can tell you, I'm kind of that kind of guy. | tend to overthink things, |

© Staci Gray 41:25

can tell you that you guys both have very similar disc profiles.

© Russ 41:29

Yeah. Yeah, so that doesn't surprise me. And so, you know, they joked about me early in my career about being hyper
analytical, Robert still refers to me as being left brained, although | think | can make the argument I'm fairly creative.
When I'm comfortable in an environment, I'm extremely aggressive. And when I'm not, I’m trying to get the lay of the
land, because | don’t want to step on a landmine, | don't want to step into a ditch, | don't want to make a fool of
myself. And so | think that there's something to be said, for being thoughtful. So it's like any process though, that
process of thinking something through a lot of the things, these processes that take time, take time, because not of
how long it takes to actually process. But the gaps in between the processing time either how many plates your focus
is spinning, like a CPU try to do, you know, 30 tasks instead of just one year, you know, if anybody's ever worked a
computer, you know, your computer is slower when you got a lot of windows open, especially if you have a limited
capacity processing capability. And so you have to consider that. And are you really focusing on the things that you
need to be focusing on what's the best opportunity instead of trying to focus on developing 20 at once, pick one,
two, or three, | think Stacy has been really good at helping me learn how to just focus on my top three in 90 days.
And anybody in the OTS program knows that's kind of one of the hallmarks of the program. And it takes people like
me who like to advance 20 things all at once. But coming back to the trade show, or even a conversation, training
your brain to process quickly, to be able to quickly see what's in front of you asked the questions, do the thinking, I’m
not suggesting you go in thoughtlessly. Ban, | want to encourage you continue to be thoughtful continue to think
things through you have to feel it, you're right. But you can speed the process up. And that's what | want to
encourage you do it's just like you've been out on the training range and the guns in the beginning. You know, they
they you go very slow. You know, they count you through putting your hand on the gun and bringing your hand your
stomach and drawing it up and putting it in and extending the gun, you know that whatever the five steps are, right?
And then pretty soon you're doing it at speed, but it’s because you developed it under control, working through a
thoughtful regimen. So the question is, well, how do you do that? When everything is dynamic? And it's it’s because
the way you do it is by asking yourself a series of questions. Like for example, | teach you when you're going to give a
testimonial, there's just three questions to answer. And if you memorize those three questions, and they become
habitual, and somebody throws a microphone and a camera in front of your face, and says Hey, give me a
testimonial. You go Hey, my name is Russell gray co host of The Real Estate guys radio show | feel great about this
training. It’s just been absolutely fantastic. Specifically, what | learned how to do is how to plan my approach get in
position and then take my shot so that | don't | can engage a prospect but | don't end up with a egg on my face

because I've really thought about what | think anybody that's interested in learning how to expand their brand and
network should invest in this program. I'm sure glad | did. Okay, so all | did was answered the three | just made that
up on the roof, right but it was basically you know who | am and then the next thing is how | feel about what I've
learned. The third thing is specifically how | benefit. And the fourth thing is how strongly what | recommend, I'm
going to give a I'm going to get my name and brand right up at the top. So | get promotion. And then | answer those
three questions. And | can deliver a great testimonial anywhere, anytime, because | have those three questions
memorized. And not only are they memorize their instinctual, | don't even really have to think about them. They're
just a habit. Well, the same thing is true. In when, when you're approaching anybody, you know, if you go through
that, again, the influence or worksheet, you ask yourself, okay, you walk in a room, okay, who's the most important
person in the room? Who's the most influential person in the room? And then you watch them, you look up anything
you can you try to quickly figure out who they are, what they want, why they're here, those are all questions. Who are
they? What do they want? Why are they here for what are they here for? And then you start to ask yourself, How can
| help them? How can | help them? How can | help them? How can | help them? And then you, you begin to think of
something that how can | help them is an angle. Like | saw a big content creator, they've been d platformed, or not d
platformed? d monetized on? on YouTube, big audience. And they were right across from us on media row. And they
came over and they wanted to promote one of their soeakers on China to on the show. Well, of course, we have to
say, what can we talk about China, that is going to be interesting to our audience. So we took the guy's bio, because
Robert was doing the interview, and I'm kind of more up to date on China. We talked it through. And | said, here's
some questions to ask. | don’t know if he’s the right guy, because he’s more about China politics, not China
economics. But, you know, get him going and see what comes out. And then Robert is fast enough on the fly, he can
just pivot off of whatever the guy's got. Meanwhile, while we were giving them what they came for what they think
they wanted, | surprised them by us by testing. | said, Hey, I'm a fan. | watch your program. And I've noticed in fact, |
even mentioned who my favorite personality, because they have multiple personalities on their channel. And | said,
and | noticed that you've been demonetised. And then | did the hypothetical close. | said, you know, we have a much
smaller following. But we've been able to successfully monetize if | could find a way to help you monetize where you
don't depend upon Google and YouTube, is that something you'd be interested in. And they were extremely
enthusiastic. Okay, perfect. So | tested a hypothesis, | had a hypothesis based on what I've seen on the show what |
knew about them. And then | tested it with the business development manager, after giving them what they wanted,
which was an interview on our show. And | got a! got a very enthusiastic response. So now I've got something to
follow up on. But all of that happened in a matter of moments. And that's what I'm talking about is you you you get
to be habitual. And the reason is, isn't because | knew anything, | knew a little bit. But what I'm doing is I'm asking
myself the right questions. And those right questions trigger my imagination to start thinking about the possibilities.
And you have lots of possibilities. And then as you engage, some of those possibilities go away, because you you
speculated incorrectly or you had a misunderstanding, and then you got to pivot. But if you have, if you have several
ideas about how you can add value, because you're persistently asking yourself, as you're watching all this
movement going on, then the answers are going to be popping into your head. And then you just get creative at
testing those. And then ultimately, when you feel like you've got something solid, you do the trial close of the
hypothetical, which | just did, and now you've got a soft commitment to continue the conversation. And at the end of
the day, developing a relationship is about keeping the conversation going. It’s not about getting a deal. It isn’t
about collecting money, it isn't about dropping off your perspective or your offering document. It's just getting the
the conversation started and keeping the conversation going based on you adding value. And that's true of
influencers and it's true of investors. So that turned out to be pretty good. One of the things he came up as | was
talking because one of the guys work in the FTA booth who's not in the club, I'm encouraging him to join the club
because after some conversations with him, it became clear he needs the club. And calls like this. You know, one of
the things | said is every entrepreneur needs to know the shortest path to cash. If you don't know your short path to
cash, then you don't have the ability to take a breath. When you need cash flow. If you need cash to put out like to
pay the bills or whatever and you don't know your short path to cash. Then you're in trouble that's like that's like you
know, trying to swim through an underground tunnel, you know, from one end to the other, and you better know
where your little breath stops are. Because if you don't have any, and it’s a long tunnel, you're in trouble. And that’s,
that's how you need to think as an entrepreneur about cash flow. And he said, Well, | really don't have any deals right
now. And | said, Well, that's, that’s Problem number one, you have to think outside your own deals, you have to find a

way to, you know, place referrals, or somehow find something that you can offer people as a way to make, make
July 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales and
Marketing ...

@ Wed, 9/22 10:58AM © 1:08:17

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, questions, robert, deal, relationship, talking, investors, conversation, big, ben, marketing, network, referring, real estate,

client, add, club, firearms training, interview, building

SPEAKERS

Russ, Ben, Staci Gray

Russ 00:17

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ, here we are for our July late July edition of Ask the mentors. And this is
about sales and marketing. So we have a sparse Group, a couple people, Ben, who we can see and Kevin, who is
hiding. | think that's Kevin regularly. So, Kevin, glad to have you with us. And you just have to make sure you unmute
yourself and chime in if you have a question. Otherwise, if you just listening in, we're going to go we got a lot of fun
stuff to cover. So I've got some things I'm going to want to talk about today that have to do with what we
experienced out of freedom fest. It was a very, very successful conference, | got a lot of work done and really enjoyed
it. You know, | think about when Robert and | work together, and | watch Robert on stage. And when Roberts on
stage, he is in his element, he’s the master of the stage, he’s the master of the room, he’s having a great time,
probably nobody more effective. With complete lack of humility, when I'm working at a trade show, | feel that way, |
just feel like | I'm shining, | can get so much done so fast and felt like | was on my a game for this freedom fest event.
And so I'm excited to share some of what happened there. So all of you can learn and the importance of going to
trade shows, and especially even go to a trade show where somebody who's good at working, it is working it there
and you can watch them work. Had some folks with us, it got a chance to see some of that and when you see it
implemented. In fact, Jay Johnson is syndication veteran club mentor member was there. You know, he’s been
through the How to Win funds and Influence People training, he’s watching me work, he’s watching me get involved
these conversations, and I'm literally doing exactly what | teach. And he kept coming back, he goes, you know, it's
really so interesting to watch this in real life real action in real world situations. And next to doing it yourself, that’s
about as good as it gets. So | encourage everybody, whenever you have a chance to attend an event, especially if
you can event tend to an event with somebody that is good at working events, and you can ride shotgun to take
advantage of that. And the second thing is | have a big collection in my folder that | call stupid sales tricks, Robert
and | laugh all the time, because we get hit up constantly by people who want to promote themselves through the
show. And we know what we've done over the years to reach into other people’s databases to get our name and
faces known among people of influence and expose through their audiences and medium. And I'd say we've had a
reasonable amount of success doing that. And | contrast the way we approach it and what we've done to the way
people approach us and who we choose to engage and the people who we just dismiss out of hand. And so if if the
idea of going out into the marketplace and promoting yourself through third parties, people have YouTube channels
and podcasts. | think maybe, depending on how much time we have with the folks that we have on the call and what
A 1:03:58

Yeah. had one quick question on your database. You mentioned database, | usually have some challenges with that.

Do you guys use something like an internal like a Salesforce app or something like what do you guys use to, you

know, track all this stuff.

© Russ 1:04:11

So we are actually in talks with a company that puts together a proprietary software and we're looking at that |
always used act. We use Salesforce for a little while gold mine, anything that's customizable, but the key is the
difference between like a marketing automation like an AWeber and Infusionsoft Active Campaign, Constant
Contact that’s really about marketing and outbound messaging. But what you really want to have the ability to do is
record and attach documents conversations, create custom fields and databases, be able to query it to find out
who's in there by variety of categories, and really, a relationship centric CRM, contact or customer related Ship
management software is going to be great for that. So haven't had a chance to debrief with Stacey. But she has
been working with with a group that we're looking at bringing into the fold. So stay tuned on that. But in the short

term, | think, you know, an act goldmine, Salesforce, any other issue.

@) Staci Gray 1:05:18

Can | just chime in? Kevin, how many contacts do you have on your on your list right now? Probably about 600. Okay,
um, are you talking with them all regularly, I'm probably talking to at least, | would say 60 ish, regularly. But all the
other ones are like on drip campaigns and different stuff like that. But it’s got the ability to be able to add notes, that
kind of stuff and, and text through it and stuff like that, but | just have not found, | just heard, Salesforce is the best
for something like that. And I'm trying to make make the shoe fit by what I’m doing. Yeah, you kind of need a hybrid
of something that’s marketing, automated, and also sales oriented. But being a syndicator, you also need an investor
portal, which is going to be where they can log in and see their information. So it's a little bit more, | just didn’t want
you to hear what he said, and go off and try to do goldmine or act because it's a lot more integrated, especially if
you want to have a data, you know, the same databases in the database and the only database. So you don't want
to have all of these different things that can’t be integrated, because that will just create operational chaos for you.
So you have marketing, you have sales, but you also have investment portal, and those all need to work together. So
keep that in mind in your search. But you can also bring up this question on our business operations caucus. It’s more
about infrastructure than it really is the sales and marketing outreach stuff.

© Russ 1:06:40

Yeah, good point. And we're working on something too. So we're constantly researching these tools, because you're
all trying to solve the same problems. And part of the benefit of the club, is we identify what those problems are. And
then we use the power of the group, if you will, to go out and find a good solution. And we're already in talks with the
group right now. And we're just not ready to announce that but it’s coming. So in the meantime, that's a small
enough cohort that you can probably manage it, you know, when in paper, and then you'll be able to backfill

because | don't think we're that far away. So I'm going to call this a wrap. Great question, Kevin, thank you do bring it
up in the operations when we have more time to get into it. Ben, thanks for showing up and having a great question
and triggering a lot of great conversations. Stacey, as always, thank you for being here. And ladies and gentlemen is
at home. Hope you enjoyed it. If you have additional questions, comments, just remember, these things always go a
lot better when | don't have to monologue | always have things to say, right? | can do it. But really, we want to pivot

off your real world experience to go out in the world. Get stuck, come with your questions, we will work through real
JO

influence people, the graphic of the, the one basketball player, this got two defenders on him, he's not in a position
to take a shot. And then that other one of Steph Curry, and you know, he's got one guy on him. And he's kind of
doing the fadeaway jumper, but he’s got a clear shot, he you know, there's always going to be a little bit of
resistance, but at least he’s got a reasonable chance of making the shot. And so | think that, you know, it’s really
important to be aware of that. And so your positioning is how, being very self aware of how the person you're
wanting to influence actually perceives you. And if you think about what we teach in secrets of successful
syndication, and the How to Win funds and influence people, those five things, how you show up presentation, who
you're associated with, whether it's a group or an individual, your endorsements, the things that credible people say
about you, ultimately, your accomplishments, and then you know, anything you can do to show that you're
consistent, there's integrity, that you're, you know, you've been at this for a while you're committed to it for the long
haul, nothing says commitment than being on the job. You know, | mean, when Robert and | say, hey, we've been on
the radio doing a weekly show since 1997. | mean, that speaks of commitment, you know, until my late wife passed
away for me to run around and be able to tell people I've been married 40 years that says something about me,
when Robert and I've been business partners for 20 years, that says something about us that only can happen by
being consistent over time. And then also not painting conflicting images and any of the other things that we do,
how we show up who were associated with, you know, and the flip side of an endorsement is the criticisms of credible
person criticizes you, you got a problem there too. And since social proof is such a big deal in marketing, that's why
you have to be very cognizant about monitoring your online reputation and seeing if people are posting things up or
talking about you and or your deals. Because | can tell you, when we somebody hits us up, they want to be
associated with the show in some way, shape, or form, we have a thing we call it background or, and the team goes
through, and they, they check to make sure that the entity is in good standing, that there’s nothing with the Attorney
General, they go on to the forums, and the big forum is bigger pockets, but they look at ripoff report pissed off
consumer, they do just a general Google search to see if they can find anybody out there that’s upset about this
person in any way. And it doesn’t mean it's a deal breaker, but it’s certainly a concern. And we just want to see is
there a pattern of behavior? and so on? fact, | just had a friend who asked me, Hey, would you make an introduction
for me, gave me their business email. | looked at the business email, it had a business domain, | went to the business
domain, and it's a Wix, you know, no website waiting, you know, nothing here. And | said, Are you sure this is the one
you want me to make this introduction with? He's like, Oh, yeah, good point. Right. So it's just thinking through how
you're going to how you're going to show up. So Kevin, you're on the line here, and we've dominated with Ben but
that's the benefit of only having a couple of you. Happy to open it up. If you came with a question. | don't have

anything specific.

24:58

I'm just, I'm not in a good position. I'm coming I'm on the road right now, more or less just listening. | don't have

anything specific.

Russ 25:03

But thank you. Okay, so we're riding shotgun with you. And you know, of course, this will be up on the platform. So
you anybody, you know, you can go back and re listen to it when you're in a position to take notes if you feel so

inclined. Okay, so Ben, circling back to you. Did we cover everything that you wanted to address?

Ben 25:23
Yes, absolutely. Okay.
have cash, that's the balance is power have multiple sources of income. But the other thing is, is | asked him, | said,
Well, you know, are you talking to investors? And he said, Well, |, you know, again, | don't really have a deal ready to
go. | said, Listen, let me just give you a piece of advice. And | want everybody who's watching this now, and in the
future to listen very carefully to what I'm going to say is every week, every week, not every other week, every week,
you need to be talking to investors every single week. Back in the day, every Tuesday afternoon, from one o'clock to
seven o'clock | sat down and met face to face with for investors, | met him at one 234 o'clock, | think it was in 530.
And then | was done. So | did an hour with a half hour in between to debrief and prep for the next person. And, you
know, our marketing had to keep enough people in the pipeline that they were interested in sitting down with me, |
wasn't there to sell them anything. | was just there to help them understand. | wanted to understand their goals and
objectives and help them understand what their options were, and then get them referred out to people who could
help them sometimes it was my company, sometimes it were my alley, some ally, sometimes it with other people, I'd
be prepared to refer them to books to podcast, and the podcast didn't exist at the time. But today, | would be, you
know, videos, anything at all that can help them because again, you're just there to add value. But the point is, is that
I'm having these conversations, and what am | looking for? I'm looking for their needs, wants desires, goals and
objectives, how can | help them? How can | help them? How can | help them? How can | help them not? How can they
help me? Not? How can | raise money? Not? Are they interested in my deal? How can | help them? How can | help
them? How can | help them? How can | help them. And if you're just constantly asking yourself that question in every
situation, and you're talking to investors every single week, and you have a set marketing activity designed to fill
those time slots, and you step it up or modify, if those time slots are going unbooked, then you got to clean it up.
Because what will happen is over time, he there's two ways to approach this business of syndication, either you're
going to go out and you're going to find a deal and you're going to look for money that matches the deal. Or what
you're going to do is you're going to go out and find money. And you're going to find out what the money wants. And
you're going to find deals that solves the money's problem, I'll give you a little secret, in my opinion, a much better
way to approach this business is to go find the money, find out what it wants and bring it deals that it likes. And you
can bring them yourself or you can bring them through your network, part of the benefit of being in the club is you
have access to a lot of deals. And as long as the rules of engagement are, hey, this is my client, | mean, I'm referring
him to you or her to you. But with that said, they have an itch | can't scratch. And it's not about me, it’s about them.
So if you'll protect my relationship, I'd like to refer them to you because | think your deal would be of interest to them.
And here are the reasons why. And a kind of goes back full circle back to what you said up at the top of the call. And
it doesn't matter if you're referring them to a piece of content to a service provider to another deal to a training
event. Whatever it is, the point is, how can | help them? How can | help them? How can | help them? Well, you don't
know if you're not interviewing them. And so you need to be talking to investors, every week, | would time block a
chunk of time set up a calendly or have your assistant have have a process through which you do outreach, lead
nurturing, where there's a call to action to engage in a consultation, a phone call an interview, whatever it is, and

then fill those time slots up and make it your mission. Because there's so many things to think about in this business,
you can wander around in the wilderness and not get anything done. But make it your mission job. One, the single
most important thing you do is fill up those time slots and have those conversations every single week, and you hit
the panic button if you don't fill those spots. | mean, that's probably the most profound and valuable advice | can
possibly give you. Because if you do that you will uncover need wants desires, goals and objectives. You will be
adding tons of value to your provider network and all of you that people that you are affiliated with in the club and
outside the club. And most importantly, you're going to figure out what the money out there is looking for. So when
you have a deal, you can either go look for deals that will fit the money or you can structure a deal that will fit the
money because we all know that you can have a deal and you can structure it in multiple different ways. You can
structure debt, you can start Structure equity, you can structure preferred return, you can have people come in for
guarantees, you can do privacy, you can do retirement accounts, you can do tax advantages you can do offshore. |
mean, you know, there's all kinds of things that you can do often with one deal, but you don't know what to do, or
how to present it in a way that the market is going to like, unless you've inventory that market, and you have records
on that. And that comes down to being good about keeping records, you know, you've take good notes in those
sessions. Typically, it's not cool to record it. But if you can do you know, with a caveat that it's for your internal
purposes only, so you can focus on the conversation and not taking notes. But if they don't feel comfortable with

that, then that's fine. And you can start it. And then you know, if you get into something personally, you can offer,
path to a payday, if all you see is the relationship of the person standing in front of you, you don't look through them
and see the network and the influence that they have on people you don't know, then you are missing the
opportunity. And a big part of developing the relationship is developing that person into what Clint Ken Blanchard
would call a raving fan, somebody that's enthusiastic about who you are and what you're doing and doesn't even
mean they have to do business with you. They just have to be excited about who you are, and excited enough to

want to help you. And then you can work through that person to get to other people. So so so that that worksheet
talks about who's the influencer? And then you make, you know, what do you think they need? What are they trying
to accomplish? And then your approaches? What's your angle? How do you position yourself, obviously, | was
wearing two hats, because | was there with firearms training academy, and | am busy with the guys that | had in the
booth. They're wanting to give away free firearms training, and then coaching them up on how to work that booth.
But I'm also running around my capacity as a real estate guy’s trying to hustle up interviews, look for new potential
sponsors for the show, make strategic introductions. And on both sides. I'm always trying to figure out who's got a big
database, and how do | open it? How do | get them to talk, you know, whether it’s like, Hey, be on the show, and
promote yourself to your list. And that’s a way to open a database and get some influence, | can quickly check.

When | see somebody brand, how big is their social presence. In fact, when people hit us up, like we had a guy hit us
up wanted, wanted me to be on his show? Well, his average view on his YouTube videos is like 40. And he's got, you
know, 300 followers or 200 followers or whatever the number was. And so he just didn’t have a good angle. Now, I'm
kind of flipping over to some of the stupid sales tricks. But the idea is that what when when people want to get into a
relationship with Robert and I, the people we pay attention to are the people who are willing to invest to be ina
room with us, we make ourselves available for people to see us. That’s why trade shows are so great when you've
invested the money to be at a trade show, as a participant, that that’s a level of commitment, and the people that
you're talking to have invested a lot of money and they're interested in talking with you. Because you're a person who
has invested heavily in the relationship, as opposed to if you cold call somebody or send an email or a LinkedIn
message or trying dm them somehow through social media. And people do this to me all the time. | really don't pay
that much attention to it. I'm not a hard guy to find, but you're going to have to invest people say all the time. Well,
gosh, Robert and Ross, how did you get into this fantastic relationship with Robert Kiyosaki and Peter Schiff, and
Mark skousen. And G. Edward Griffin. And, and you know, Chris, and Adam, Chris martenson, and Adam Taggart,
and the list, you know, George, gamma, the list goes on and on and on and on and on. How do you have all these
amazing relationships, it’s really quite simple. We invested heavily enough. We got on airplanes, we paid for hotels,
we rented cars, we paid admission to get into events so that we could spend time with people and show up. And you
know, to me, that's like the minimum, if you're serious about a great relationship, you got to show up. And so people
who try and just hit us up to be exposed on the show that haven't made that investment really don't get the time of
day. The only exception is, is if, if, if they have a big following, if they have a big following and a clean reputation,
then we'll absolutely consider it. But if you're an up and comer and most of the people watching this in our
syndication, mentoring club are up and comers trying to build their brand and network. If you think you just gonna
hire a PR agent or podcast booking agent, they're going to go out and harass people like us to get you on the show. |
can just flat tell you, at least as far as we're concerned, and I'm going to guess it's probably true for most other shows
of any substance, you're not going to get the time of day. You know, we went after if you follow the TV series hotel
impossibly so watch it many years ago, we ended up at a hotel conference where Anthony melchiorre was one of the
keynote speakers. And so in advance of that | hit him up and asked for an interview and he turned me down. Well, so
then when we got there, | showed up and | tracked him down, and | introduced myself and face to face because |

was there. And he goes, Oh yeah, you asked for the interview, and | turned you down, didn't I? And | said | said yeah,
but I'm a huge fan of the show. | think we can get you some good exposure won't take that. much of your time, and
he tested me right away goes, Oh, yeah, what's your favorite show? Fortunately, | really did watch the show. And |

was able to, you know, rattle off an episode that | had actually seen. And | had great detail. | remembered pieces,
because you really do watch the show. Okay, I'll do the interview. And so again, he was testing me and some, you
know, people that are higher level getting clawed at all the time, they want to know that you're the real deal. Are you
serious? Are you committed? Are you just blowing smoke? And guys like that I'll call bs on you real quick. So do your
homework plan your approach? | get all these gratuitous Oh, | listened to your you know, recent podcast and data
Don, | especially like the episode with whatever something and then they pitch something completely unrelated to

our audience, completely unrelated to what we do. And | know they didn't listen to the show, they have no idea who
elsewhere, because we need that vital service. And as much as I'd like to be loyal to the person, if they didn’t scale,
they've they've basically shot themselves in the foot. So we have that discussion. Excuse me. And then the fourth one
is balances power. And balance is about having the relationship be human, totally human, where we care about you
your personal life, if you're having an illness or family issues or whatever, we're not going to hold that against you,
we're going to do everything we can to support you, inside of our business. It's about having redundancy and vital
functions. It’s about having multiple sources of income, it's about not being dependent on any particular marketing,
channel marketing, relationship, product line, economic condition, so that we can pivot depending on what goes on.
Now we've we've modified that a little bit. But those are the four core ones I'm not suggesting necessarily, although |
think | like them. And | think a lot of people, | rattle those off to like them. But | do think it's important for you to be
able to, you know, clearly and concisely as | just did articulate what your values are. And then stop and take a breath
and make sure the person on the other side, find out even find out how they feel about it. Does it resonate with you?
Is that something you feel like you could support and we talked about the mutual responsibility, we have to support
each other's brands and business and be you know, invested mutually in each other's success. And that's maybe
financially usually a little bit but mostly, emotionally, mostly from a relationship, a commitment standpoint, to be
invested in, in the other party success. And when you get that out on the table early in a network of people then and
establish it. It may not always go according to script, but at least you've let people know from the get go, what the
spirit of your involvement in the relationship is and what the condition Have your best efforts to help them grow their
business. So that that's kind of how | handle that part of it. Or you may have had more to your question. So I'm going
to take it in chunks. Stace, before | just continue to ramble or give Ben a chance to kind of ask a follow up question,
did you have anything you've been around me and this program? And obviously, you know, you're building alliances
as well? Do you have anything you want to contribute to that?

) Staci Gray 10:25

| think | mean, Ben, and | did his three days. And so he has his values, clearly identified, being able to articulate that
because people come for content, but they stay for community. And so when you create a movement, and you say,
you believe what | believe, come with me, those are the you're going to attract the type of people that you want. So |
think that's what we do. And Ben, you're in the perfect position to do that as well, because the values that we've

identified for you are in alignment with who you are anyways. So it's a congruent move to make, yeah,

© Ben 11:01

didn't show Well, in my virtual background. I'm holding the page.

© Russ 11:08

Well, the virtual background looks nice, except when you move the wrong way in your ear comes off. But that's a
different discussion. So and then the other part is the accountability. You know, you know, one of one of the things
we talked about with our alliance, is that they have their ear to the ground. And a lot of times a client, a shared client
will open up about issues they're having with another provider. And you know, that you always have to maintain
professional discretion, you can't talk out of school. And that's true. When you know, things about the your client's
financial situation, or personal challenges or goals and objectives. You don't want to over prepare the person you're
referring to, especially to the right at the risk of betraying your investors confidence, because somehow that'll get
back to you. | like to ask permission, you know, of the client to be able to have open communication with people in
the referral network once they've accepted the other party so that you can collaborate more effectively. If you get a
chance to talk to Stephanie or Mike pine, about the way they work together, then, you know, there’s some of that, but
you always want to make sure that you maintain that professional discretion. But | like to make sure that the

providers that people in the network also feel like they have permission to, to contact each other. The first thing is,
