JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

49:33

So you feel we can get more for the condos. At last the parking because we have the

parking

49:38

understand look at it and what I'm hearing from you and it's not unusual because they
view it that way. parking space is an amenity which tenants are willing to pay for or
owners are willing to pay for. It’s a great amenity. Now it's hard to visualize that place to

put a car. It's in a ona floor with other cars is a plus is an amenity, but it is.

50:08

I'm a car guy. So | get it. But not everybody is right. No,

50:13

it's a big it's a big plus. And it does make the apartments more desirable when somebody
goes to sell them. At this, they have the parking space the parking space goes with it. So
it's a major it's a major plus, not i'm not i’m not here don't look at it negative is a major
plus. I've I've had been involved with with with buildings, where the person buying a condo
or buying the unit that it wants to buy for parking places, because they got children or
what have you, the community water is taxable. You don't need them. Provided happen.

That's a problem. So look at the parking space. It's a plus none of mice.

51:04

estimation. That's exactly while hard milk George Clooney. Good. Awesome. Okay, we get
back on that one. Yeah, thank you. Okay, this next one is from Randy in California who
couldn't be on the call. So I'll read the question for him. So he is evaluating a number of
projects and wondering how to account for rent concessions that are clearly occurring in
the market. Rent concessions are fairly common. And they're evaluating for property,
some properties for sale that have seen strong occupancy growth leading up to the sale.
The books of the seller, don’t disclose any rent concessions. They think that the discounted
rent is being hidden through some form of off the record concession. Maybe it's 13 months
or the price of 12 or something like that. Yeah. Have you encountered that sort of thing

before? And how have you handled it and due diligence
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

57:05

before the industry and sure, many, in many markets, there are inducements for tenants to
take space. That is your safe space, you give them free amount of free rent or a couple of

months free or you give them something else. | don’t show up on the books within you, but
you look at the income. That what the rest of rental, there's got to be a lease, what's the

rental under the lease?

22:26

Well, it’s really to hide a reduction in the lease so that it looks good on paper, right?

52:33

| don’t agree that's to hide a reduction in the lease is just that the there is an inducement
to get the tenant to come into the building should be fine, you want to call into the
building, I'll give you two months free. That's not a reduction in rent, as such over the life of
the lease, but it is an inducement for the tenant to go in there. But anyone looking to
purchase should say okay, in erecting this base, I'll assume that there is a rental allowance,
there's like two months or one of them. So instead of the rent being $80,000 a year, it'll be
$60,000 a year or whatever the numbers are, particularly if you can live on the 60 on the
rent rent reduced within certain incentives, having been taught so while that's fine. In fact,
it's not for this close on the books you're not. That doesn't doesn't enter into it. What's the

market in that particular area? To rent the space.

53:36

So what you're saying is really build your own perform independent, whatever the seller
claims, and

53:42

yeah, yeah. And what has happened interesting, as far as what has happened in New
York, is a phenomenon which didn't usually happen is that the tenants are, or if ha
somebody's paying $6,000 a month. Now, they will move into an apartment, then pay
$1,000 a month, but they get free rent, it makes it look like $6,000 a month for two years.
No, this is a horizontal changing to get a get a nicer unit. And they don't pay more, but
the owner of the unit is taking less than he would ordinarily get because the market is not

there. doesn't have any people that are ready to pay 8000 daily people would pay 6000
JO

JO

JO

JO

38:24

Yeah, yep. It is. So | can't get my crystal ball as far as butthat is concerned is pretty cloudy.
But that doesn't mean that you should look or get find something. It's good. If it's
residential. I'm all for. Okay, but not not commercial. Understood. Okay. Cool. Okay.
Anything else? He said? No, I'm good. Always appreciative of the wisdom. Okay, good luck.
Good luck. We've been here many times. | love it. Thank you. Thank you.

39:13

Thank you, Victor, or you're welcome. Great, George, this is a this is one. This is a new one.
For me. We were actually served with a frivolous lawsuit last week against one of our
companies. And in this particular case, it's the first time I've ever been sued. We know that
the defense’'s, overwhelmingly strong | mean, the petition before What's that? What did
they sue you for? This was a profit share agreement. And somehow, you know, we
provided financials. We basically said, Look, this particular project hasn't generated a
profit yet and therefore you're not entitled to a profit. Yeah, you know, been completely
transparent. Yeah. And, you know, the person in question looks at the property says, Yeah,
your property's full, you must be making a profit Give me my money. So that's the
essentially the basis of the argument. Now, you know, even the opening statement of the
petitioner, the court wouldn't survive a truth test. So we know we've got a very solid
defense. Yeah. Now. So I'll put this in the category of let's say, your general frivolous
lawsuit, and | know you've seen them. | know Donald's got many of them over the years.
What do you do in that situation? Is it simply an attempt to get someone's attention? |

mean, they could have just had a dialogue.

40:36

Oh, not a good to some exams at this point. Effectively, one point questions, is it worth
anything to buy my way out? Even though it's totally frivolous, right? Depends on what
they're asking for. And the nature of the student who's the blanket.

40:52

It's someone who originally conceived of this particular project, couldn't get the project
over the finish line asked for help. And we said, All right, we'll finish it for you. We'll give
you a profit share, as opposed to ownership. And once the project's done now, what he
represented the project when he handed it to us turned out to be very different from

reality. So almost everything that he said he was delivering, he actually didn’t we had to
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

you're talking about a variation of the same theme. very much the same. Yes, but except
one diff one difference. One difference is you have vacation areas in a highly desirable
area. I'm familiar with the area, it's highly desirable. | said, I've been tucked into Lake
Louise and Optos area, you're going to get tourists coming out. You want tourists and you
know, can you can handle? Because it's ideal. It's as ideal, as far as the terrain is
concerned, is ideal, as far as the weather is concerned, and it's just gorgeous. Uh huh. Hold

on to it. Don’t don't sell it and don't give any part of it back. Great. Well, |

21:02

feel very encouraged by this conversation. So thank

21:07

you should be but mainly make your lenders part of the solution. There, they're not used.
The problem was not something you created. It’s not voluntary, and they will recognize it.
And certainly the courts do recognize it. Excellent. Thank you again. Yeah. So they're not
in you're not going to lose the property. And don't be afraid to take a firm stand. Okay, |
can do that. Thank you. Okay, let's go next to Michael. Okay, Michael.

21:43

This one's a little complicated. So please bear with me,

21:47

Michael. Kevin, you and | talked before? Yes, we have. How come you everything you
come up with is complicated. So you say this one’s a little complicated. Okay, but | have

no problem. At this point. We're complicated. properties are complicated.

22:02

Perfect. So we, we have a $7 million building under contract and we're building we're

going to knock down the commercial building and build nine plus storey building. They're

22:13
JO

JO

JO

JO

35:52

| don’t see no, very good question. And the answer is, | don’t think the businesses will not
stay in New York, but they're going to operate differently. So you don't need if you had
office space, it was 100,000 square feet office space, you can probably operate in 25,000
Square Feet one quarter, because you have a lot of people doing virtual, or moving some
of your personnel out to the suburbs. However, New York City, Manhattan is the capital of
the world, whether we like it or not, it's the capital of the financial world. And it will be that
continuum is where the stock market is. And it's the natural place for any company that
wants to do business in the United States. You fly into New York, perhaps to have an office
there. So | don't see that changing and certainly in the near future, maybe even a long
range, | don’t know. So | do see a downsizing but not a not a huge downsizing. And
effectively, a lot of those buildings could be transformed. They could be office basically,
term could become residential, on a residential market in Manhattan is hot. For some
reason, very hot. And personally, you know, the hottest part of it is the high priced stuff.
It's easier to sell a condo for $5 million dollars than to sell one for a million. Go figure it out
without

oe old

it. Yeah, that's somewhat counterintuitive given the state of things.

37:31

But what happened? was they kind of intuitive, there is a lot of money coming from
overseas. Okay, where they want to park it somewhere safe, what could be safer than
they think in the middle of Manhattan? And yeah. So that raises the market. Well, George,

37:49

| think your your point is exactly right. It's people looking to park cash and play from Brazil
and various other places where their currency is devaluing. And the entry level of the
market that is your your basic condo, pre pandemic, there was seven years of inventory of
new product in the market if you include the shadow inventory. In Manhattan, there were
six years in Brooklyn five and a half years in the Bronx is a ton of inventory of new
product. And that was pre pandemic. So the pandemic just turn that even situation even
made it worse.
JO

JO

JO

JO

twist. Yeah. Come on out. And then each individually, each country is separate and add
how they handled it and what because it's to me that's a bit that's a big risk. However,

having said it’s a big risk, | think you can buy properties that are very cheap.

29:26

Yeah, that’s what you told me last time. Yeah, that property is very cheap. And then I'm
told that it's going to go up next year and they said now which is like buying an LED.

29:35

Who's told me it's going to go up next year. Golden visa people. Some of my friends who
put this way it depends on on the when you say it goes up depends on the nature of the
property and where it is. Portugal's got a lot of pluses for it for you. The client It is good,
depending on the where it is he the views are good. You could be on the coast. | don't
know where the property you're looking at is, but it has it has advantages, but there's still
a foreign country with a with a economy and the government, which is questionable not
not that there's a problem. But that’s all of your. So the fact that you picked out Portugal
and | tell you the same thing, if we're talking about France, or Italy or Spain, you don't? |
don't know. | don't know what this because it's, it's what has happened with the pandemic
is just thrown everything in a tailspin. And nobody really knows the way out of it. Yeah,
fine. It’s just too soon. So before as | would be concerned, you're asking me to change my
advice, | see no problem with the you're holding on to the Los Angeles or selling it, and
then seeing what's available in Portugal. Now, having said that, | think you can make
some tremendous buys there, because whoever owns property in Portugal is going to be
very nervous. And when you have people that are nervous, that's the time you can make

some very good deals.

31:06

Absolutely. And | want to set up a retreat center there anyway. So be there three months a

year, so right. But that would be a good investment in that way, too. |

Shlo

agree with you wholeheartedly a good, a good investment. But it's the risk is what's going
on now with the pen with the COVID and the pandemic. And when that settles, and what

effect that has on the the populace or the people going. | don't see it as much in Portugal.
JO

JO

JO

JO

or pay 8000 but they get to once two months free or whatever it is it'll take them in. So
you got a vertical a horizontal shift rather than a vertical shift. Which is entry but what
happens? The difficulty is the units that the people coming out of are harder to rent
because you got somebody that's is paying with paying $5,000 is Linda go to 7000 with
with adjustments, and you don't have many people willing to come into the 5000, unless
you're going to give some rental reductions for the people five times. So it's just as if the
market is tough, then you're going to have concessions. And it could be improvements it
could be giving washing could be all kinds of things. Upgrading new appliances, a whole

bunch of things. But that's part of owning, owning real estate.

55:37

Yeah, of course. | mean, certainly certain improvements fall in the category of the classic
value add upgrade washer and dryers and tries a little bit more all that’s perfectly

legitimate.

55:48

Yeah. They're all legitimate. Yeah, but what do you need? What's the inducement to get to
work? I'd have to do it. Not not unusual? And | wouldn't, | wouldn't question. You see what
it can find out what's going on in the marketplace. And if you can get some of these
tenants that go into the buildings and say, Good, how much did you pay? And if they say,
Well, | paid | got two months free, then you take that into consideration and say two
months consideration to move into this into the space and then through your your actual
rent is less by the two months. Nothing unusual. That is that has that the off the record?
There's nothing wrong with it. It's just typical business.

56:39

Okay, understood. | thought there was new accounting guidance in 2016. That required

some of these inducements to actually be documented as part of the

56:50

gap was possible. | don't know. Okay. | don’t know. But | have never, to my knowledge I've
never seen anywhere is required for you to stay stateside, why would you? Why would we
listen to advantage or disadvantage? You're going to pay income tax based on the

income you get. If you don't get the income? We're not going to pay tax on income you
JO

JO

JO

JO

That could be an upheaval, as | do in some of the other countries. Yes. For example, Italy,
is you got a big problem. gonna disappear. And the fact that you go to go lose that this
tourism goes down and people going back to this. It’s it's becomes more general than
specific.

31:59

Yeah, | had a couple friends who lived there and said the government was horrible to

they're leaving because of that also. Yeah,

32:05

yeah. Yeah. So it's a it's it's investing in Europe is, you know, do you like it? Go do it. A lot of
people make a lot of money on it. It certainly has a better tax structure than you have in
where you are. Yeah. So good luck to you. | wouldn't, | wouldn't.

32:23

You would not sell the house in LA, because it's top of the market. Now | could get

32529

by as far as selling the house in LA the answer, | would say yes. | would say yes to top of
the market. But | think to me, that is a market, which | cannot explain. And | don't think
anybody else can explain it. It is but | don't like California. When | say | don't like
California's by the climate is great people. But there's a mass exodus of people going out
of California because they are afraid of the governor in what's going on. | know that all
the bad spots, coupled with the fact that they have a tremendous budget gap. We're
going to get well, | have to increase something. So I'll increase the taxes | increase the test.
So | see in the long one longer I'm talking in the next few years, they have to do something
drastic. And | think when they do something drastic some of the A lot of people that are
going to be an issue Why am | staying in California? Yeah. | have a better tax structure or |
don't have to worry about it. And with the fires, that’s a big problem. So all things
considered, if you can sell it and make a good profit, which you can amazed at the market
is strong. It's so strong. It’s incredible. Yeah. Look, | guess | can sell my house to sell the
property. | haven't immediately if | can get rid of the smoke.
JO

JO

JO

JO

for comes to that area look and see that the main support is in the center of the block.

Not the corners. Yeah, yeah.

10:35

Okay, well, let's go to some questions from the group here. Why don't we start with

Shana. Shana, you're on the line?

10:42

lam. Hello. Hi, George. Thank you. How are you? I'm well, thank you. How about yourself?
I'm fine. What can we do for you? Excellent. Um, so we have an investment project that
owns vacation rental properties in canmore, Alberta, which is right near Banff National
Park. Great. The location traditionally has huge international tourist demand, especially in
the summer. And in a normal year, we bring in about three quarters of our annual revenue
from June through September. So in this project, we purchased our first properties in late
2018, and then the remainder in the spring of 2019. And we had them all operational for
the 2019 summer season, which was incredible. And they all performed very well, and
things were looking wonderful for the project. And COVID. Cavan? Of course, you've heard
this story a few times, I'm sure. Yeah. So I'll skip to the punch line. In that case, since you're
probably know where I'm going with this. We're now staring down the barrel of a second
winter of negative cashflow. Yeah, and at this time, we've used up all of our cash reserves
for the project. The the one good piece of good news is that the property market in
canmore is booming right now. And we could use it and it will continue to write, and we
could potentially sell a portion of our portfolio to receive a profit and to get some cash
out to retire debt and carry us through the winter. So the other option is to take on more
debt.

12:24

When we take on more debt, have you spoken to who's who has the debt on the property

now a bank?

12:30

We've got a 50% bank loan, and then we've got some private mortgages behind those.
JO

JO

JO

didn't get you decided to give up what you might have gotten? No, | don't see that.
Standard per standard practices to give allowances. And it could be sometimes it could
be substantial. As much as a year, your year free or six months free. But over if you give
me but if you give me a five year lease, I'll give you free five months free, but one year, one
one month, every five years, every year, the book kinds of twists and turns that can can be
done. That's perfectly normal and nothing wrong with it. I'm just good. Yeah. Okay.

Because the doing business.

57:46

Well, terrific. Thank you, George, as always a great call this evening. | thought so. Thank
you very much. And for the folks on line. Have a great evening. And we'll interesting

questions and keep them flowing.

58:01

Thank you so much, George. Thanks, George. Good luck. Yeah. | appreciate your wisdom.

And thanks again, Victor. Basically, you say I've been there and done that. So

58:13

| said most of the things, most of the questions, | can say I've been there and done. Yes. |

think so. Thank you, George. Thank you, Victor. Okay. Good luck. See you next next
JO

JO

JO

JO

happened and they got us Here's a certain amount of blame as a result of responsibility,
whether they like it or not. And if you push them, they will. Yep, don't be less. Don't be
afraid to take a firm stand. | mean, I've recent vintage, I've had this situation with
buildings where the tenants don't pay the rent. And Linda says, Well, what happens is
you're not paying your mortgage.

15:28

Why not? Because I'm not getting your rent. And they don't want to foreclose. Because
they don't want to end up with the building. And not only that, they're not going to win in
the foreclosure.

15:40

Because if they record course, with course, your logo to look favorably upon you, not upon
the bank, or the lenders.

15:50

Right? Yeah, no, you're absolutely correct. That makes so much sense. And | do actually, in

thinking about it, | do think that they will give us some relief. If we ask

16:00

No. blame you rescued, you said the wrong thing. If you ask if you insist they will give it to
you, you got to take a hard position. And | know it's hard for a borrower, which has a piece
of property to take a firm stand with a lender. | know it's hard, believe me. | have done it
many, many times over the years. And it works. It has to because they don’t want to own
the property. They don't want to take it back. All | want to do is get paid. So if you can
convince them, Look, I'll pay you but not right now. So when | will just like accrue some of
the back payments. And then when the vacation the season comes up next year, I'll pay I'll
start to pay it off. If you're acting in good faith, they have no alternative. | know you like to
do it. | know | just boy, | can't do that. | have to sell off some of the profit, | must pay the
bank nonsense. Pay off the bank. That's the last thing you want to do. Right? Yeah, no
100% problem. If you have a problem, and you go to your Dollar Bank, here's my problem.
| don't have the cash to make the payments because of the problem with the COVID. They
can't say well, we're not aware of it. Or it's not they shouldn't share in it. Because it’s not

your fault. This is not a voluntary situation. It’s not like you got a lot of money, and you
JO

JO

_)O

JO

07:47

There was a very interesting case. | don't want to go too deep on this. If you're familiar
with the Citicorp tower on Lexington, 54th. Street, the one that sits on top of the church
there. Yeah, yeah. The | think it was Bethlehem Steel that did the construction on that
particular building. And the the architect who are actually the structural engineer who did
the engineering work, designed some diagonal braces to transfer the load from the
column from the edges of the building to the center columns, because the whole building

is, candidly

08:24

fairly familiar with the building. Yeah, I'm thoroughly familiar with the building. Yeah. And
the architect had to design columns, to take in the fact that a corner of the building was
not supported. Corner over the church. Now what you're dealing is you're creating a
structure in a steel structure, which is not typical. Because usually any any structure would
be anchored on at least four places. This one was not this was anchored with wood, you
have to support the main being from the around the church, or the other place. So you're
now creating a vert, a horizontal structure, or beams, which was unique for the site. All
different ballgame. The epilogue to this thoroughly familiar with that building.

09:16

So the epilogue to the story that you make out was done. Right? So the epilogue to the
story that you may or may not know, is there was a graduate student at Princeton
University, who tried to replicate the engineer's calculations, and she couldn't. So she went
back to the engineer and said, under certain wind loading conditions from the diagonal, |
think this building falls over. And he discovered that she was right. So over the span of
three months, the hired every welder inside and at night, welded these bolts that could
shear to strengthen the building without telling anybody except for the city, the building
department and their insurance company.

09:56

Yeah. And you had to do it because you Creating stresses that are not typical in building
construction, right? Because of the cancel leverage effect over the church. Yeah. Yeah, |
know you got a high rise building above it thoroughly familiar with it was very interesting.
As a matter of fact, | had a client and the building part of the land on which that pulley

was built. So | am thoroughly familiar with it new, very unusual. And for anyone that looks
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

47:36

Absolutely. You can live with a one to one ratio you can live with with one and less than
one. Because what will happen? There will be you will find that there were many of your
purchases that want to

47:48

Well, that's what we're hearing a little bit because this actual product demographic or
downsizers that are late age baby boomers. Yeah. And most of us will have two cars.
That's it.

48:01

| think to a certain extent, from what I'm getting from your reading the question you
raised, you are of the opinion that having parking space and water parks is a detriment to
the building. I'm telling you it’s a plus. | have seen | have not seen or been involved with
many buildings, where people will pay a huge price to get the second place the second
space. Well, that’s one of the comments. Yeah, nobody got it has nothing to do with what
it cost to construct or anything is you snap the has the convenience is this point. Yeah, |

now have two parking spaces instead of one big difference.

48:45

So we bring a bit of pushback from the city because they want to lower a lower ratio. Well
that's it but then get the best you can that's what we want to know if we should pick our
fight.

48:56

Definitely they needed that. What did you find my from my experience, that heavy book,
excess parking or at least a one to one deal is a big advantage. big advantage this
element in the problem that will come up is when you get to the last couple of units you
don't have a parking space you got a problem. And the price of those units without the
parking space will be substantially less than what you get if you did have a parking space
even if the $75,000 per unit.
JO

JO

JO

because of the threat of litigation, | don't know what it is about that particular asset class

that's causing this, but wanted to get your thoughts and perspective on it.

01:52

Okay, good. My thoughts, your perspective? | don't know Wait, what condos are any
riskier than any other residential structure? or whatever it is, a condo has anything to do
with it? As far as the architect, the architect is dead wrong. | did say that same way the
hire a lawyer, do you insist upon malpractice insurance? Did you go pay for it just like
saying | made a mistake. If the architect is is good, and you obviously he is here, then he
should be able to subscribe to his work and get his own errors and omissions policies. Why
at that point is he tried that off to the owner to the to the beat to the client, it just doesn't
make sense. It concerns me that the architect is not that sharp, maybe a good architect,
but he’s not aware of what's going on in the business world. It's typical, what you have
condo is no different than any other building. It's a higher Isaiah structure, | assume. It's
got to be built according to the code or you the various regulations that you have
governing the construction of property wherever it may be. And assuming that he designs
it right and is built right. Once the problem is. Usually it’s not the design of the building. It's
the basic structure itself has created a problem | assume a good part of this is coming
from the building that went down in Surfside Florida, where why were so many people
were killed. And this is where | assume that his hesitancy is uh, you know, basically
preparing. That would be my thought. | don’t know if I'm right. But you know, | don't see it
any different than any other building any other building project. | wouldn't pay the
220,000 | get a different architect.

03:40

Yeah, | mean that the notional we kind of responded with almost exactly what you said.
and and the the conversation predated the surf side situation. So wasn't driven by that.
But | think the thinking was that if there is an issue with a condo building condo boards
have a propensity to sue the builder or this the the builder then points the finger at the

architect. And then you have this massive, you know, swirling pretzel of, of litigation.

04:13

Why would it be any different? Why would | understand what you're saying is there's a
difference because you have condo is a condo board is about to sue an architect, right?
Rather than if it weren't a condo board, but it was owned by an individual owner, do he

might not sue the architect | you know, | don’t see the tremendous distinction to me as the
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

great. The

22:16

on October we go potentially firm on the deal. We heard through a little bird that
basically, the seller has a first position loan of $2 million on it. Yeah. And the lender does

not want to renew or they don't want to be in the lending business anymore. Wait,

22nd

wait, what is the loan cash do? was alone is just alone at this point, which is due on sale. In
other words, would have to be paid out on the sale? know that? Okay, but I'm now saying
assume there were no sale the loan is current, | assume? Yes. Okay, fine. So now what
we're saying is it's not a question of the owner of the property not paying the loan is a
question if he sells the property and makes a deal with you. That that could be the basis
for a termination of the loan, the lenders got the right to say I'm gone. If you refinance, if

you do something else. Am | right?

23:16

Yeah. And here's the challenge on the seller side. Yeah. So the seller because we put an
offer on he hasn't renewed any leases. So he won't be able to get a refinance on the
building because of the lease numbers are low. Well, not it. Yeah. So. So the we basically
are giving him it's it's seller financing, and when the downpayment $700,000. So we

figured he's $1.3 million short on closing day.

23:45

No, wait a minute, this boy, he’s saying that they just hit it with the understanding that
effectively what you're saying is you put up 700,000 and the seller has to cover that has

to take a mortgage position or

Za-a7

take crap. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. | got it. So he’s $1.3 million short on closing day based on
what we know. And if we fulfill the contract and lift all the Commission, the conditions and
commit to purchasing, it seems like the sellers in a pretty bad condition. You asked to

come up with $1.3 million to cover the difference between our downpayment and the loan.
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

24:24

| hear you loud and clear. So why why is this plane ticket? Why are you having a problem?

24:30

There's no problem. The question is, how would you negotiate with the seller at this point,

24:35

if negotiate to how to negotiate with the seller at this point is if the contract is conditional,
| would | would say it’s for make it firm. Yeah, so we make a firm, make it firm. We've got
who's got the problem. You are the lender. You are this. The lender does the seller, the
seller, not the lender? So yeah, yeah, seller has a problem. So Look, that’s nice. Wait until
he calls and tells you | got to share his problem, then feed then you can figure out how you
can use it to your advantage. Okay,

25:11

you would just do this lifted? Like we don't know anything, were you not? Why no, why are

you worried? We're not worried at all,

25517

then just let it happen but don't make the first call. Okay? In other words you have to wait
to see is just extra says the size of contract and say fine. Your seller on a certain date,
whatever the closing date is deliver me the deed. And I'll give you a new take back the
loan. Yeah, and see what happens. Okay. Now, you'll have to figure out to cover it or
come back to you and say we have to restructure the deal. Either way, definitely you go
you got your holding all the cards. Yeah. Great position. For you not for the not for the
Zealot. Yeah, no, | will play it but we don't make the call. All right. don't negotiate at this
point. God, what | would do the neck when you do this, or when it is when you doubt x
exercise the contract. So it's not conditional anymore. Just we're facing the closing date.
Okay, when you got that point, you come to that point, and the seller starts to talk to you
or wants to talk to you or put something on the table. That's the time call me again. And
I'll tell you the best way to negotiate and see what he comes up with. But the problem is
the sellers problem, not yours. Yeah. Awesome. Thanks for your welcome. Okay, in that
position. It's a fascinating story, isn’t it? | like to be an apple. You'd be surprised at this

point. What purchase price could change dramatically?
Ollee

July 2021 - Mastermind with George
Ross.mp4

ae Wed, 9/8 2:18PM @ 58:36

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

building, architect, pay, property, people, problem, condo, question, rent, pandemic, point, sell,

project, portugal, concessions, lender, market, seller, buy, area

JO

JO

JO

00:07

Welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with George Ross. just great to
have you here again, how have you been handling just being sequestered at home these

days not traveling.

00:20

What's up? It's pretty good in New York. So now you can go around and most people do

vaccinated. So it's not terrible in New York anyway.

00:30

Yeah, Fantastic. Fantastic. Well, we've got some great questions tonight. Good. And a
couple of late breaking questions as well. So we'll get to those also. Okay. So let's start off
with something that's kind of surfaced in the last several weeks, we've been working on a
couple of different condo projects. And one of them we had a tier one architect out of
Houston, declined to build or design a $50 million new condo build. For the simple reason
that he said that, and this year, in his words, all condo projects result in litigation these
days. Now, he’s an excellent architect. He’s got an amazing track record. And the only
conditioning who was willing to undertake the design work is if we the developer
purchased errors and omissions policy on his behalf at a cost of $220,000, which isn't a
huge deal. But it actually raises the question, I've heard this from other architects as well

as to whether the condo asset type is becoming too risky as an asset class. And just
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

34:02

Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So what do you say sell and buy something in Europe, it would be
probably a quarter of the price of what | would get the house. Where else would be
buying?

34:13

Look out at this point that you're going on? is right now the exchange rate is very
favorable, the dollar is very strong. So take that into consideration when you're when
you're buying too because you know you're paying in American dollars which is better
than paying in Portuguese, which you probably euros or whatever. But you got a lot of
luck. A lot of pluses in making the the translated position from the from California to
Portugal. Yes. Yeah. Good luck.

34:45

What about New York? Is that a good place to put money right now? Where do we put
money? We're on No, no, no. Okay. No, |

34:55

would do it depends on what you're doing is is if you're doing you say putting money in
residential, the The answer is, yeah, maybe. But New York is very similar in concept to Los
Angeles. Moving out, that's what | thought it’s good to move in right now. And taxes
basically are going to be talking about increasing without the | don't know, what's going
to happen with the mayor of New York and the government has been being diverted to
something. And it’s just upsetting, which, to me is not the not the appropriate time to

make a major investment.

35:36

Okay, George, piggybacking on what Lisa said, Do you see a permanent shift in a place
like Manhattan due to COVID? And the fact now that many businesses have learned that
they can operate their businesses effectively, remotely without having a presence in the

city?
JO

JO

jo

JO

Die)

12:36

Fine. And why did this was one of one of you spoken to your lenders and told them what

the problem is?

12:44

We spoke to them at the beginning of COVID. And they did give us some payment relief
for a period of time. Yeah. And and that has ended it ended. | think they gave us six
months kind of thing.

12:59

So good. Yes, for another six months. Yeah, that's a good idea. No, no understand is that
lenders never want to take back property. Never want to pay, they don’t want to own the
property. They just want to get paid. So this one’s a bank, a private lender or what have
you. They don't want to end up with the property and foreclose and run it. All they want to
do is to get paid. Here you have a catastrophe which, which was unforeseen, unforeseen.
And every lender that I've ever dealt with, is aware of the fact and willing to make
concessions, as they don't make concessions, you say I'm not paying you. And you'll find
out that they're not going to foreclose. And if they do foreclose, the courts are very much
in your favor in your favor. Because this was not this was not a voluntary failure on your
part, not to make the payments. This is a result of a pandemic, or an unforeseen situation.
And | would basically push it, and | think you'll be successful, | would not sell the property
under under this set of facts. It's a great location and a great property and the pandemic.

Well, we overshot a little wait a little longer for that money. So

14:18

that's a fantastic idea. And I'm so glad | asked the question because we had not thought
about that option. And | think | think you're

14:26

absolutely correct, though. The option basically is you go in now what you do is the way
they speak to your lenders and plead poverty. All right. Look what happened here, just put
because of vacation, like everything is that I'll pay you but | can pay you now. And it's
nothing they're gonna do about it. If you're acting, you're here, you're not doing you're not

voluntarily refusing to pay. You're saying look what happened. And they're aware of what
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

26:49

Yes, how? Okay, we've got a couple of late breaking questions. Why don't we go to Lisa?
Lisa is not a real estate professional. She's a Hollywood. Er. Hi, Lisa. Hi. We've talked
before? Yeah, | know. We have. Yeah. How are you? | am just fine. Thanks. What can we do

for you?

27:14

Excellent. | have my business partner on the call to Paul, are you there?

27:20

lam here. Hi, George. Nice to meet you. Hello.

27:25

Hi. So | was talking to you about Portugal before. And I'm still | still want to go there
maybe September, October and buy up some stuff there. And | have a couple of homes in
Los Angeles that are paid off. But the one the tenants haven't paid for a year on one. And
they agree to move out like next week. So that’s awesome. Yeah. And they were wonderful
for three years, just with COVID. They said they couldn't do it. So I'm thinking about selling
that it's worth about 2 million to five. Find something in Portugal, Italy. And I'm thinking
even maybe New York. | don't know what to do. | don't want it to sit there. But I'm afraid of
tenants now because of the instability of the economy all over the world. What do you
think?

28:12

Well, that gave me a whole mouthful and a couple sentences. The first thing is as far as
uh, strangely enough, Los Angeles is pretty hot. Yes, thinking so many people are moving
out of it to go to other areas because of everything is going on with the governor and the
bad press and new cars. You think NACA is still so hot, which amazes me is why it's still a
desirable area for people to buy into rent. | just don't understand it. But that's beyond me.
It's just is Oh, LA is amazing. Just LA for Portugal. | know nothing about Portugal. And |
really would be very hesitant as far as Europe is concerned. And certainly, because there's

the economy over there is rather unsettled. | don't know. And COVID is giving it a major
JO

JO

JO

JO

don't want to pay him that you don't have the money coming in on a vacation rentals,
and therefore you can't make the payments. Fine. Right. I'm giving you a perfect example.
Perfect example of a building that was built in Chicago. | was fully sold. Not was a fully
sold, it was under contract, everybody put up 20% of the purchase price. And to do it. And
then the four years it took to build the building. The market, tanked was in the city of
Chicago. So now went to the bank and said, | don't care what fellas, this is the story. We
can't pay the mortgage. The people who bought it at the 80% are not showing up. So is
what whether you like it or not. You're a part owner of this building. And they screamed
and they will walk and we're going to foreclose and everything else and what happened
What do you think happened? They ended up as the part owner but not part owner. They
recognize the fact that you're going to get less purchase price now than the amount of
the mortgage because there's a change in the marketplace. Isn't that somewhat similar to

what you're talking about here?

18:57

Yeah, it's very, very similar. That makes a lot a lot of sense. And at least in this case, there's

you know, we we all believe that there’s going to be an end to this and things will return

19:10

will be Yeah, don't question will be the situation is different here because the one in
Chicago was just the city went down. The and the whole market changed for the worst.
Here. The market didn’t change for the worst. The markets remarketed what you got in
the area and I'm thorough on the video was banned from that area is magnificent. At this,
you said you're gonna have you're gonna have the customers and they're gonna pay

more. It's just a pandemic created a anomaly, which everybody will overcome.

19:49

Great, thank you so much. | so appreciate this.

19:55

I'm glad you appreciate it. | think I'm glad you brought it to my attention. This is not the
first time that someone has spoken to me and say what happens now | have tenants that
can pay your rent or | have more finance. | can't get the business acumen. | have hotel

owners. They say what do | do now? There's nobody in my hotel. There's no similar to what
JO

JO

building is built right? Which should be then | wouldn't have any problems. Fighting if |
work with a lawyer representing an architect. I'd rather representatives against a condo
board and | would represent him as against a an individual owner who knows what he's
doing. condo boards, you know that they're just not that sharp. They're not people that
know what's going on. Generally they're good businessmen. They don't have anything
really to do with the construction. So | wouldn't you know, to me, it’s a tempest in a
teapot. I'm not, | wouldn't, | wouldn't do. Look, | wouldn't be upset with it one way or the
other, I'd go out and get a different architect is the first time I've heard of this. Interesting.
Okay. So But not only that, but in many instances, we hired architects, they all have an
error or omissions policy, if they've done something wrong, like a lawyer has a malpractice
policy if the lawyer has done something wrong, it's a professional person, he should be

willing to underwrite his his work.

05:36

Okay, now, | appreciate the perspective and and, you know, this is why we have these
conversations is you hear things and sometimes | hear things and you got to try and make

sense of it and put it in perspective. And | understand that |

05:51

think it should be put in perspective, but | just can't see why all of us whites came up in
that particular instance, when this is inherent in the construction of major buildings. The
architect designs it now, the design is not usually the problem. The physical construction
based on the design is usually the problem, right? So the architect designs and says, Yes, if
it's built this way, the building should last 30 5050 years or 100 years. But what usually
happens if something occurs, it's because it wasn't built in accordance with the architects
design, and also the building code, the regulations that govern the construction. So the
steel was fine, but it wasn't said good or concrete wasn't good. It's very rarely goes back to
the architect. And | can honestly say in all my experiences is now basically having done a
lot of these buildings for the better part of 6070 years, I've never seen one where they've
seen the architect successfully. Interesting. It’s true, that if if you have a catastrophe,
they'll Sue everybody in this everybody that's involved, including the architect, it could be
the concrete probe, the person putting the concrete, the inspectors that set the town is
only everybody to put everybody in a clock. But so what? | don't see the liability and i
don't think i think it's inherent to any professional person that they have a certain amount
of protection, what you done was right, and the architects are the least vulnerable. It's
hard to say that the building wasn't designed well. Right. You could say it wasn’t built well,

but how it was designed? Well, no, | haven't seen that.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

42:53

| can make a claim for 5 million for damages. And the rest is punitive. Yeah. So you make it
bigger, reconnect, see what happens. let it play out a while. Probably what some point,
you got to decide how much does it cost to make it go away? Because it's just it's just
annoying. And even though it's a baseless claim, that's what happens with the frivolous
claims. But if you stretch it out for over a period of time, you'll, you'll be sure you'll do work,
because he can't continue it. When they usually start these, they want to get it settled
pretty quickly. If you're telling me he’s broke, he wasn't gonna settle even more quickly.
Because he needs the money. Right? Alright, so just just hang tight and don't do it. And the
papers should you be strong as your lawyer as you can possibly make it and then see
what happens. The more time and effort they have to put into it, the better it is for you
because he hasn't got the money to pay for the time and effort. Kind of the lawyer or law
firm or the lawyer that he hires sees that this is not going to there’s going to be a difficult
case, you're probably either say | want more money, | want to get paid up front, or maybe
you guys want to be replaced. | don't want a part of it. So you may get as difficult as you

can for the party bringing the frivolous lawsuit.

44:19

That's an angle | hadn't considered that the law firm might distance themselves.

44:24

Yeah, at some point, if there's going to if there's going to be a lot of work that's going to
be involved. Somebody's got to do it. And | would doubt that any reputable law firm
would take this on a contingency contingency. So | would say probably You're giving me
some money, I'll file a complaint. Let's see what happens. But if it's going to be a long
drawn out affair, they're going to have a law firm is going to want to be protected. They're
not going to do it for nothing. That's a very astute angle. Yeah. Yeah. So | would see Let it

let it simmer for a while. Let’s see what let's see what happens and talk about it again.

45:05

Okay. Super, thank you. Okay, you're welcome. Okay, this question is from Matt.

45:13

Good evening, Georgia. Hi, Matt. I'm good. So we're working on a condo building here in
JO

JO

JO

JO

Ottawa, and Revit. A bit of a dilemma with parking. Of course, always parking. The
neighboring building to nearest, discharging the property $75,000 a spot in a new
building. The actual cost is roughly 65,000. Yeah, we're having a hard time believing that
people will soend more money on a parking spot than what their car costs. We praise the

braking spot as a loss leader, we're hurting our profit margins and the project. No, no.

45:46

No, you think you're approaching the problem, from the wrong viewpoint. The parking
space that you're talking about, and say, if somebody wants a three bedroom apartment,
you'll pay more than a two bedroom apartment, the parking space is part of that unit.
Don't look at it as a separate amenity you need it, especially | assume. And | don't know
for where it is that you have to have the parking because you can't park in the street or
you can't do it. So the Pete and the people that are occupying the building, need our cars
have cars and have need a place to put them to where to put them you gotta have a
parking space. That's just like another rule. Let's not take the fact that | wouldn't say that
it's $75,000. And you could buy a car for $65,000. It that's that's to me is not the right way
to look at it. | need the parking space for my apartment. Therefore I'll pay it's just part of

the cost of ownership. So don't separate it out.

47:00

Every now we can fit about 88 parking spots for a 90 unit building on two levels. That's it.
That's it. 88. That's tight. Yeah. Or we can go two and a half that was put in 118 parking
slots by

A712

building 118 parking spots. You can sell an easier you can sell them or rent them easier at

this point, then you then you didn't you believe?

AT 22

Well, that’s what that's what our concern is. We're worried that if we don't provide them,
it'll be harder to sell the condo units. | agree with that. 100%. Do you feel the difference

would be put the parking in make sure there's at least one to one ratio? Absolutely.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

do from scratch. You get a cross claim against him for damages. That's part of the
discussion. Now we could make a cross claim. What do you mean could do it? The

problem is he's broke. So question is fine. Okay.

41:38

He'll make a cross claim for many millions of dollars. That's because he's broke. Okay,
showing this. If the cross the cross claim is probably better than his original claim. Oh,
absolutely. | mean, fine. So just where’d you go? Where'd you get the money to pay a

lawyer for the lawsuit?

41:58

| have no idea if they took it on contingency or not. It's

42:01

gonna take that one on contingency. No, no. Smart. No real good lawyer anyway,

42:05

correct. | mean, they're premier law firm. So premium law firm whose law firm? | don't
remember the name right now, but they're a premier of New Orleans law. Where New

Orleans in New Orleans? Yeah.

42:19

Okay, well, that's a different, that's a different area down there. But | would certainly find
it as as make make it Reek. Make your cross claim reek of fraud, everything else that's
involved. He's done it at what? Put everything that you can in it and put a big number that

you want. You want dollars. We're not get it?

42:45

Yeah. And we can easily make a claim, you know, hands on hurt, make a claim of a million

for damages. without any hesitation,
