Kevin 33:11

They couldn't they couldn't not have just done QE, you know, whatever numeral you want to give it, because they
didn't have the authority to be able to do so. But this gave them obviously, carte blanche to, as you mentioned, is

burn a lot of money.

Russ 33:26

Yeah, well, | mean, they they have, they can do whatever they want. It’s not a matter of what they're they can do. It's
a matter of the ramifications of what happens that everything the Fed says everything the Fed does is scrutinized
intensely. And so sometimes they have to put misdirection out there. But to me when they talk about tapering, or
they hint about a hawkish position, but it's you know, Peters been telling us forever, it’s all Bs, they can't they can't
really do it. And the fact is a tried and proved they couldn't do it, you know, we had those little bit of rate increases.
And, you know, the markets were collapsing, and it just, they didn't have the, the fortitude to follow through. And they
need an option to the dollar. | mean, and that they need an option that they can control. Now, whether they're
colluding with China, and this is all theater, or whether China and Russia are out there independently trying to break
away from the dollar. And that's a real threat. | don't know. | mean, it's really hard to know. So | just try to dumb it
down to the part that | think is certain to happen. And what | believe is certain to happen is that the dollar is going
to continue to grow weak. Therefore | want to | want to be in debt. | want to own productive assets. And | want to
have savings outside the dollar and probably outside of any paper currency so that that's why | like precious metals
because it gives me something | can pivot in. Anywhere. And | think that when you take the precious metals real
estate debt combination and put them together in today’s environment, it's the best formula for risk adjusted return
that | can find. And I'd love somebody to come show me something better. But | don't see it. You know, and |
understand that there's a lot of people who think crypto is the future. But if you saw my presentation, at the the
summit, the the thing that | was trying to draw out was, was the difference between something being an asset and
being a unit of measure. And when you are used to denominating the world in an asset, like $1, that was a unit of
measure a specific amount of silver. That's what $1 was. And then one day you wake up and the connection between
the dollar the unit of measure and the asset, the silver is broken. And people keep trading in dollars thinking it’s an
asset, when it's just a unit of measure. | had this conversation with my niece the other day, and just to explain it to
her, | said, let me ask you this. | said, let's say you had a car that was for sale, and | came in offered you 100 gallons,
would you take it? And she goes, What do you mean? | go well, you know, if if instead of denominating transactions
in dollars, we denominated them in gallons, how many gallons would you take for me to buy your car? And she said,
Well, | don’t understand. | said, Well, it's simple question. Right? How many gallons? She was gallons of what?
Exactly? Exactly. dollars of what? What's $1? What's a Bitcoin? It's a unit of measure. It's nothing but a unit of
measure. And the only thing that gives it its value is that people are willing to bid on it, believing that somebody else
will take it. But the reality is it doesn't have any other utility. There’s no real world utility course silver does. Gold does.
And other commodities would be very suitable for trading because they have real world utility, but none are as well
suited as gold as Jim Rickards makes in his case, the new case for gold, which is on my bookshelf behind me.
Because of its unique qualities, it’s one of the reasons why at the summit, we we highlighted sunken treasure. So

some of the prizes for the pirate costume contest were were coins that had been retrieved from a treasure trust in a
Shunk, sunken ship. | promise you, if there were paper notes in there, issued by Spain in the 16 1700s, they'd be
worthless. But the coins still have value. And they survived all that time in the ocean. And that's part of the reason
why precious metals, especially gold have been money for 1000s and 1000s and 1000s of years. | personally think
that precious metals are still money, and are still being treated as money. By the the powers that be they just don't
want any of us thinking of it that way. So they, they hide it. They don’t talk about it, they suppress the price, because
they can dollars mean nothing to them. Right? | can sell naked and lose money all day long. If | can print as many
dollars as | want, what do | care, | just want to make sure nobody's paying attention to gold. | can print a bazillion
dollars and buy bitcoin and create a shiny object. So people are inclined to buy gold, get all excited about Bitcoin
and sell all their gold, because | want to snap it up. I'm not saying that's what's happening. But it wouldn't surprise
something happens, | can pick up the phone say, Hey, did you see that? What do you think? And you can bet I'll be
doing that I'm sure in the next few months, because | think things are starting to happen. And | think the Wells Fargo
is move is just an indicator because | remember when those tremors started occurring back in 2007. And you could
feel it coming, you didn't know what it was. And of course, back then | really didn't know what it was | didn't know
how to recognize signs, and | wasn't plugged into smart people. But you can definitely feel them right now too. So
hopefully the new version of the real estate guys in our, our team of people that were plugged into on our ability to
read the tea leaves will give us a lot more heads up hoping that's going to be the case, love having all you as part of
the Watchtower team up there paying attention. keep bringing you know your questions and your ideas and the
news articles that interests you. And we'll just keep grinding on it, and see if we can figure it out. So we got two
minutes left. That was a little bit of a monologue. Hopefully that was worthwhile for someone. But any other

questions, comments from anybody? Before we wind this thing down?

Kevin 57:58

| was curious, you said that you think that they may be able to manipulate the bitcoin price. But yet you think that
they use the Bitcoin to potentially run it up and then get the gold out of the hands? So it seems a little bit
contradictory in that regard?

Russ 58:12

| think it's contradictory. | mean, it's, you know,

Kevin 58:15

we get they want like a dial essentially, like they can run it out to get people to go after that instead of correct. And

then suppress it when they need to.

Russ 58:24

Yeah, exactly. | mean, it's the idea that they want to have control of everything. They're control freaks, that that’s
what they do. They think that they're, you know, somehow innately qualified to decide how the market should
operate, and they should intervene in everything to for the, for the betterment of all. And if that means that you lose
your individual freedom and discretion over your own individual investments, or they have to crush you or push you
into a corner or your collateral damage, well, they don’t care because their philosophy is, you know, the, the needs of
the individual are subordinated to the needs of the many. The events. That's the way socialists and communists
think, Okay, | have a different view, right? If you've got a body that's made up of cells, and they're all healthy, you're
healthy. You're healthy by definition. Right? It makes no sense to me that you're going to build a healthy body by
damaging individual cells, unless you think those individual cells are cancerous or dangerous or somehow a threat.
And so it tells you how they think about certain aspects of society that they go after, through their tax code through
their regulations through, you know, and right now, it's like we want to crush small business, because we need
everybody either on the government dole on the government payroll, or working for big corporations whose
monopolies we protect, and who are easy for us to track and collect taxes and report people we don't like all these
independent people running around, right? They're independent thinkers. We need to crush them, we need to weaken
them. So two businesses standing side by side In the exact same business, one is allowed to operate because it's big
and one is not allowed to operate because it's small. And you go back and look at the history of COVID lockdowns in
2020, you saw a lot of that happening. And you saw these people making these videos. How in the world Is this fair? |
here | am. I'm a small business. I'm running my restaurant right here. And right across the street is another restaurant.
And they're allowed to run and I'm not. How is that fair? What's not fair? That's not designed to be fair, right? | mean,
| watched the bankers take out the savings loan industry. | watched the bankers take out the mortgage banking
industry in 2008. Still think they might have their eyes on the life insurance industry? It wouldn't surprise me. Right,
and but right now, | think the small business person is is is the target. So but that's just me. | mean, you know, again,
that's me with my little tinfoil hat on hanging out too much, you with the Jim's dad. Right, but | just think the

evidence is there, and I've lived long enough to see it. So you know, | You can't say with 100% certainty what really is
going on in the hearts and minds of the wizards. But you can judge a little bit by by their actions, you know,
sometimes actions speak a lot louder than words. And you think, Well, you know, | get people making mistakes from
time to time. But, | mean, either you're grossly incompetent or you have an agenda that isn't the one you're
purporting to have. | tend to lean more towards the latter, especially after Alan Greenspan told us at the New
Orleans investment conference a few years back that all this stuff you guys talk about these these folks over the
Eccles bill, they know it, they know it, too. It's not like you guys have figured out something they don't understand.
Which if you read between the lines, and Alan Greenspan was a master of talking between the lines, you had to learn
how to interpret Alan Greenspan. But he’s basically saying is they know exactly what they're doing. They're doing it
on purpose. Oh, maybe that changes things a little bit. Certainly changes the trust level. Okay, guys, we have no gals,
just guys appreciate you. You know, again, just keep reading the news. send your questions in you don't have to wait
till the last minute, just send them in throughout the month. And then we can circle back you find interesting articles.
Sharon, post them up on the forum, Craig Cameron, who's not on the call, but he did post | believe on the forum that
he he's posting stuff on his feed. So if you're interested in what he's looking at, you might check that out and | have
on my list of things to do to be better about feeding feeding you guys more information. So I've been a little bit
remiss in that because | have a big folder full. But anyway, okay. We'll call this a wrap. Thanks, everybody. Have a

super day. And hopefully we'll see all of you at this weekend's meetup. Thanks, guys.
Russ 15:48

Yeah, well, they can't let bond yields increase. So talk of tapering is just to convince the market that they haven't lost
complete control. But they have. They have they're they're in the box that Peter Schiff has been telling everybody
that the Fed has been in, they're stuck in that box and have been stuck in that box. And they have no way out, there
is no way out. That's why all the pressure is going to be on the dollar. So the concept of tapering is the idea that they
would stop purchasing seeing so many bonds. And the natural reaction to them not buying bonds is that bond prices
would go down. Because a lot of the bond buying that happens in the private market are people front running the
Fed, because the Fed says hey, we're going to buy x and we have a target rate. And so they go and buy the bonds
ahead of the Fed, hoping to sell them back to the Fed, or some proxy of the Fed. And of course, meanwhile, the
Treasury is busy busily issuing new bonds, both to rollover current debt that comes due and needs to be refinanced
and also to fund new debt as the deficit and debt continues to grow. But at the end of the day, what you've got is a
world that is sitting on something like a quarter of a quadrillion dollars in bonds, that are all priced based on today's
interest rates and 40 years of falling interest rates. And so that's like 40 years of falling cap rates on apartments,
which you can imagine what that would do to apartment values. And you can imagine that if cap rates were alll
sudden to go up, what that really means is that prices on those multifamily properties or real estate went down. Well,
that's an a level of pain for people who hold apartment buildings, because their equity erodes, equity always
disappears first. But what they don't have is margin calls. Most of them don't some some loans may may have that
built in. But a lot of real estate, by and large, doesn't have a lot of margin calls. So if equity erodes, it sucks. And it
makes the lenders nervous. But at the end of the day, as long as you're making the payment, you can ride that wave
out. The problem in the bond markets are because the yields are so small, the only way that they can make any
money trading in them is to lever them up. And so they hypothecate them, which means they pledge them as
collateral. And then that collateral is used to create more money and they buy more bonds. And so if you can think
about the idea of being able to take and, and, you know, own a bond that's yielding, say 2%. And then you pledge
the bond as collateral, and you go buy another bond with the same money. Now you've got 4%. And then you can
pledge that bond and rehypothecation. And you can create this extreme leverage, which is what exists in the system.
Of course, the problem is if interest rates go up equity, all that equity erodes, and it's razor thin. And now you get
margin calls. Meaning that when these bonds retreated in price, they they either have to sell the bonds at a loss and
take the loss and realize loss. And there's a lot of games played in the accounting side of the world. And | know
you're an accountant, you probably know it better than me, where as long as you don't have to mark your portfolio
to market which is one of the things first things changed in 2008. No more mark to market because if you have to
mark the market all sudden, the fact that you're broke, you have to tell people, well, if you don't have to mark the
market, you don't have to do that. But you still have the margin calls. And so you have you have to sell whatever you
can sell that there's a bid on in order to raise the cash. And when the market start to unravel, what you get is a cash
crisis. So one of the things one of the the indicators you pay attention to in a market like this is a liquidity crisis. Are
there indications in the repo market or there are indications that there's a liquidity crisis, Wells Fargo just came out
and you know, made their move and announced horrible earnings. And so the question is, is that well Fargo thing, or
are they do they see something else at the same time, you have consumer credit just hit an all time high. So you've
got Wells Fargo closing lines of credit, you've got you've got announcing poor earnings, you've got consumer credit
blowing through the roof, which means people are using credit, they don’t have money. So there's a lot of indications
a weakness out there. And and so, you know, the Fed is, is is got to print money to fund all these deficits and all this
stimulus, you know, the infrastructure bill and all this stuff. And they have to do it in such a way that people don't
think that they're going to print the dollar into oblivion. And so they circle back to this taper talk. Well, the thing is,
this isn't our first dance. Now, this isn't our first rodeo with the Fed. We know how the Fed behaves, because we saw it
happen in 2008. They printed money. They called it quantitative easing, they both admitted it and denied it at the
same time. And then when they they said it was temporary, because these things are always transitory, but they're
not what government program has ever been transitory like none ever. Unless your tax cuts, then they started
jawboning, we're going to raise interest rates, we're going to raise interest rates are going to raise interest rates. And
so their guidance, their forward guidance there they're talking is part of how they try to manipulate the market. And
sometimes the market listens and believes it sometimes the market calls BS. And so you have to kind of watch what

what is the Fed saying and what is the market doing. And so coming full circle, the Fed is out there talking about
 

in order for all that to work, there have to be plenty of bonds and there has to be plenty of cash. Well, when people
don't trust the counterparty In other words, the pawn shop owner doesn't trust you to come back with the cash and
redeem your your pledged collateral, they're gonna charge you a big premium. And so counterparty risk, you know,
one of the ways you gauge counterparty risk in the financial system is what the repo rates are, when the repo rates
went away up to 10. It was like, Well, people are very nervous that there's not enough cash out there, people are not
going to be able to come back and redeem. And of course, the feds reaction to that was to pump in. | mean, literally,
like 100 or $200 billion a day, go back and look at the history in September of 2019, about the repo market and what
the Fed was doing. And more recently, the numbers have gotten up close to a trillion dollars. So you know, again, I'm
not I'm not completely, I’m not ready to stand up in the front of the room like George gammon and conduct a, you
know, an explanation of what the repo market is and how it works. My big takeaway was that my basic
understanding was correct, that it’s a heck of a lot more important than | ever realized. And that | need to spend
more time studying it more time talking with George about it. So that’s on my to do list. So that's about all | got for
you on that Jared.

Jarrid Cavanaugh 26:08

Ross, just from the way | understood it. And I'm kind of with you, I'm just starting to get into the repo market pretty
deep and learning about it. So take this with a huge grain of salt, but from the way | understood it, they were using
the repo market in Oh, 708 to cover mostly their derivatives that they had on their books overnight. And that was
something in the neighborhood of like 10 or 11 trillion. And they're still doing that today. But the derivatives market
today is 1.2 quadrillion. Yeah. And, and back then there were 4 trillion in bonds to cover those derivatives and 1110 or
11 power many trillion and, and I'm just like it, just the the, the balloon is so outstandingly big that if there's any
hiccup in the repo market, | think it all happens a lot faster. Because if you remember, back then it took like the

better part of a year almost for it all to unravel.

Russ 27:04

Yeah, well, | think part of it back then, is that a lot of people didn't know. | don't think a lot of regulators | don't know
that even the Fed was aware of how much stuff was happening off balance sheet. And how big that derivative
market was. | mean, clearly, AIG didn't know either. They didn't understand what they were insuring how much
leverage was there, they, you could see the book leverage but the off book, leverage you couldn't see, today, that's
not a secret. The problem is they didn't fix the problem. And it's to your point, gotten a hell of a lot worse. So
everything that was wrong in 2008 is more wrong today. And there is no solution. | mean, when you party, on falling
interest rates for four decades, you bloat the world on debt. And the entire system is debt, what has to happen to fix
it all, is that the entire system has to collapse. And it has to be replaced with sound money where none of this is ever
possible. But that’s a very, very painful transition. | can't imagine any politician or policymaker is going to take us
through that on purpose. | think the market will eventually do it. And then the question is, is the people who are
accustomed to being in power, fight desperately to retain that power? What kind of a world do we live in in terms of
private property rights, freedom, privacy? You know, those were a lot of the concerns that were coming up on the
summit. You know, and in spite of, you know, Robert Kiyosaki, he’s kind of edgy behavior. At the end of the day. |
mean, he's really upset because he’s been an observer of this even longer than | have. And he can see what's
happening. And | don't care how rich you are. if if if you lose private property rights, if you lose privacy if you lose the
ability to control your assets. | mean, look what real estate investors just went through in the name of in the name of
the pandemic, right, eviction moratoriums mean having their balance sheets bled dry, well, they still have to make
mortgage payments, but they can't collect rents, they can’t evict. You know, and | mean, how is that your private
property? How are contracts sacred? | mean, there's a lot of things that happened, that | think Main Street needs,
needs to be upset about it needs to hold the bureaucrats and the politicians accountable to and the question is, we
have to decide as a society and we're not going to solve that here. We just have to watch and see what our fellow
countrymen do. But we have to decide what kind of a world do we want to live in. If we want to live in a world where
them about it, because all of their investments, paper investments are rife with it. But you can offer options. And |
could go on and on. But let’s not let me just kind of clean up did did | did | give you enough of an answer for your
question?

© Kevin 14:16

Yeah, | don't know that. I'm necessarily positive the question. But yeah, that was that was good. Good discussion

around the headline that | had mentioned | had so

© Russ 14:27

yeah, there's a lot of info, you know, just out there in our world, again, crisis investing series. Even the silver series, Dan
and | talk a little bit about kind of the dollar and why metals make sense. And the same thing that makes metals
make sense make real estate and debt on real estate makes sense. They're all part of the same argument. Probably
an argument I'll be making from the front of the room at New Orleans, depending, you know, we'll see but they
usually give a stage time and I'm quite certain that'll be my topic. Probably some variation on precious equity, which
| did on the summit. Okay, so that's all that. What else? Any anybody else here, Jared? Jim been hiding in the
background? Michael, you made it. Michael, Michael Meade. Anybody got a question? Something you saw on the

news you wanted? You want to ask about?

© Michael Meade 15:18

Russ, can you hear me?

© Russ 15:19

| can hear you.

 ) Michael Meade 15:21

This is Michael meet. | was curious on your take on, you know, I've heard about the Fed might possibly start tapering
in the near future, but then bond yields kind of fall off as two weeks. What's your what's your take in that move?

© Russ 15:36

Okay, so the question is about tapering.

© Michael Meade 15:42

They've talked about tapering, and then the drop in bond yields were | would have thought they would have
increased?
So I'm happy that you're all here tried to monologue there a little bit to see if john would show up. But he’s not here.
So I'll answer his question last. And I'll take your questions first. So does anybody have anything that they want to put
into play something you've seen in the news, something you want to comment on? Or ask about? Don't be shy,
because | hate dead air.

© Kevin 04:07

thing I've been saying not just some of the more topical stuff, it seems like the fear porn is starting back up again on
you know, the next third wave, etc, etc. So | have people in my sphere, kind of asking about that and asking me my
opinion on that seems like every day there's a new headline, you know, regarding, you know, uptaking cases, yada,
yada, yeah.

© Russ 04:30

COVID invariants. And, exactly.

© Kevin 04:34

| feel like that’s kind of their, their billing bill that, you know, laying the groundwork for this next narrative, essentially,
that's going to be kind of foisted upon us.

© Russ 04:44

Yeah, well, | mean, you know, that has economic repercussions. It’s not an economic story in and of itself. But you
know, when it first came out, if you haven't seen the crisis investing series, you know, it was the first thing we did is
like, What's going to happen? And our basic thesis was that the health crisis would create lockdowns or the response
to the health crisis that would then create economic seizure. In other words, cash would stop flowing. And that would
put a ton of pressure on the financial system. Because when cash stops flowing, debts go bad and whole system is
debt when debts go bad, it’s a train wreck. That's what happened in 2008. And so the question is, is then what is the
powers that be going to do, we can cluded that they would print money with abandon, and do everything they
possibly could to, to pump liquidity into the system. And of course, without things moving, that liquidity doesn't show
up in terms of inflation, because there's no velocity, money's not moving hands. It shows up in asset price bubbles, it
shows up in interest rates being pressed down, which is, you know, kind of the reason they do it. But it does put all the
pressure on the currency. And so the question is, how, what are you going to do in the face of potentially a falling
currency, and this is something we've been talking about, forever, you know, you go back to read our real estate
investing report that was written in 2013. And you look at the dollar under attack video, which is in the future of
money and wealth series that we presented in spring of 2016. And then, when it eventually comes out the
presentation that we did, we call it our greybeard presentation, because | dressed up as a pirate. And | gave my
entire opening presentation at this year's summit in that regard. And it was basically just an update in the history of
what's going on with the the failure of the dollar and the causes behind it. And then ultimately, if the ask is what are
we going to do about it? You know, a lot of that depends on what you think it’s going to manifest. So if you come
back full circle to your original question or Khan's comment about the the, the the disease, you're going to have, |
think, three schools of thought out there, you're going to have the person who believes the stories, who believes the
threats, who takes it at face value, and thinks that this is a deadly disease that requires extreme action, maybe
beyond anything that would normally be acceptable terms of infringement on people's freedoms and enforcement of
making people do things or take things that they don’t want to. And there's going to be people who believe that and
it's almost like religion, the next group of people are going to be the group of people that think it's all Bs, that think
me. And so | just think that the key going through what we're going through, is that we have to understand what's
real and what's paper. And you have to have more real in your portfolio and more real outside the system. | think if
you want to have a chance to be able to survive a system reset better than someone who is all paper all system,
right? Somebody in that position is going to is going to be in trouble. And so again, you know we're purveyors, most
of us are purveyors of real estate syndications real estate deals, but we're not restricted to only real estate. You know,
you see people bringing in equipment, bring in tax breaks tax is going to be another big story. We know that there's
proposals coming out to jack up taxes, we talked about it the last ESCA, ask them mentors call. It's gonna be great
because it’s more tax uncertainty shows up in the headlines. It's going to be more things for us to talk with people
about about how are they mitigating their new tax liabilities and are they open to investments that are tax
advantaged and if they are Then you know, you've got a prospect if you can go find a tax advantaged deal. So |
think we're gonna see more opportunities there, you will also have the opportunity to construct portfolios, you know,
more than just, hey, here's a deal. But here's a portfolio. Here’s a portfolio that’s designed to hedge against the
system collapse in $1 collapse. It contains debt, it contains real estate, it contains precious metals. It contains high
yield debt, that we'd be happy to foreclose on, right Jim Griffin, and then we can go get that property and its cash
flows. So there's a lot of things that we can use that are happening in the news to strike up conversations. And, and,
and, and if you do it, if you are able to articulate it, well, you will set yourself apart because most people can't, most
most indicators can't. They know how to do their deal. They know how to pitch their deal. And they just talked to
people trying to get people to buy their deal. And if you do that, if you just go hustle, you'll do fine. But you're gonna
have to hustle a lot. Whereas if you really mastered this my opinion, you'll end up with loyal investors, who will be
very actively talking with their friends about you and what you're doing, because it’s so unique and so beneficial.
does take more work on the front end. But if you're serious about being a professional, and obviously again,
preaching to the choir, because you're all on the call. Anyway. So any other questions from this group? | still have

plenty of time to answer John's question. Questions, comments? Okay. Oh, yeah. Michael, go ahead.

Michael Meade 41:42

You mentioned earlier Wells Fargo freezing their lines, lines of credit ups, | think 100k was the limit or something?
What would it take? How many more big banks would it take for you to really take notice and take pause and say,
okay, something's really happening here. Or, or what are some of your thoughts when you read a headline like that?

Because that | saw that was immediately like, | want to discuss this right here.

Russ 42:06

Yeah, well, | was on Zero Hedge. And | had, there were three articles that popped up 123. And they struck me so much
that | actually took a screenshot of it. The first one, this is on July 8. The first one is wells unexpectedly shuts all
existing personal lines of credit hinting US economy on the edge. So that was headline number one. So the question
is, why would they do that they would do that, because they're mitigating risks, they see risk on the horizon. They
know if people can draw down on these debts and don't pay them back, they're going to suffer losses. They feel like
there's a probability that's going to happen and they want to limit people's ability to it's a preemptive strike. So
people who are broke are going to run and drain those credit lines and just go bankrupt or default on the debt and
have the cash in the bank is going we see this coming and we're not going to let you do that. Okay, so that’s what's
going on there. Now, the next headline says consumer credit soars most on record as credit card borrowings explode.
Okay, well, headline number two explains headline number one, doesn't it? And so it's like, Okay, well, that that
makes sense. Wells Fargo probably can see that people are going further and further into debt, and they're smelling
risk. So they're mitigating preemptively. The third one is, here's what Wall Street thinks is behind the shocking
plunging yields, which of course we talked about earlier. And that’s people running into bonds. Because if you're
going to be a lender, who do you want to lend, you want to lend to the person who's got the printing press? That's
the one that's one borrower who for sure, you're going to get paid back? Of course, the question is, what are you
going to get paid back? Right, what's going to be the value of those dollars when you get them? But right now, if you
think in terms of dollar terms, which 99.9% of the people, that's the only way they can think, then they're just
concerned not about return on investment, they're concerned about return of investment. And having the US
government and the de facto Federal Reserve as your Counterparty means you're going to get your dollars back?
And the big question, then is going to be what are they going to be worth? And it goes back full circle to how do you
invest in the face of a falling dollar. But But, but definitely, it's a it's a risk off. In other words, it's it's a sign that banks
see risks. And there's other of those types of headlines out there, which is only logical with everything that the
economy has been through. It’s only logical, and of course, to Kevin's point earlier if in fact, people believe that the
bureaucrats are going to step in and further lockdown or suppress the economy, it’s only going to get worse before it
gets better. And then you're going to add taxes. On top of that, so | think that anybody's paying attention goes, it
doesn't look like sunshine. In the future, what it looks like is a lot of stormy seas, and probably a whole lot of currency
creation. And so then it really begs a question, which is the theme of today’s newsletter is what do you do in the face
of extreme currency creation comes back full circle, productive assets, that are real and essential, like real estate that
people need a place to live in, they gotta make their house payments, debt, some of the cheapest longest term debt,
you can get real estate, and then keep your equity in the form of precious metals, keep your liquidity in the form of
precious metals, a substantial portion of it, don't keep the equity in the real estate, don't keep the cash in the bank,
just the minimal amount that you have to. And | think | can make that argument all day long, based on history based
on what's going on. And the fact that gold prices aren't up dramatically, as you might expect, in the face of all this, |
would not look at that as a problem, | would look at that as a gaping huge opportunity, a big hole that you ought to
run through. Well, it's open. But that’s just me. So I'm going to be talking a lot more about that going forward,
because | think, and I'm just going to go ahead and do deal with John’s question. Now. He says why aren't gold and
silver prices going up? dramatically? Do you think that perhaps for many crypto is the new golden silver? | feel like we
should be seeing the same price and inflation in the metals as we are in crypto. Okay, well, | don't profess to be a
crypto expert. But there there are a couple of things that | think about crypto, | think number one is that. You know,
as | mentioned earlier, if | was trying to get people who held gold to let go without having to bid them out, what |
would do is create a shiny object for them to chase and hope they do. And when | saw Raul Paul, you can look him
up was a big proponent of owning gold and a big critic of the dollar. And he completely closed out all his gold
position went all in in crypto, and told me that that game could be working. Okay, so if dollars mean nothing to me,
because | got a printing press. And | can bid Bitcoin up to the moon, to get people to let go with their gold and go
chase the shiny object. I'm going to be flashing that laser printer like a madman trying to get as many people as
possible to chase it. Okay, | haven't heard anybody else say that. That's 100% my own thesis, it could be complete
insanity, or you know, maybe brilliant insight. | don’t know, but it sure wouldn't surprise me. The second thing about
crypto is | noticed that when we passed the big stimulus package, that that big COVID relief Bill had a lot of money
going offshore. And if I'm a politician, and I'm for sale, and | got to figure out, well, I'm going to send all this money
offshore, how do | get my kick back? kryptos a great way to do it. And so all sudden, there's a big bit up when the
money comes back, and then it collapse shortly thereafter. And you'd go back and look at the chart. And you look at
the news headlines. I'm not saying that correlation is causation. But it was just something | was paying attention to.
So | don't think crypto and gold are the same in any way, shape or form. | think people try to conflate them. | think
an argument has been made on behalf of crypto that is the digital gold. But | don't believe it. Because crypto is unit
of measure just like $1 That's all it is. It's nothing but that. Whereas gold and silver is something that's real, has
utilitarian purpose and has been used for a long time, including in bassel. Three, if you didn’t pay attention to that
June 28, the new basil rules moving gold to a tier one asset, which means it’s considered to be risk free. So banks get
full credit for the gold that they have. In other words used to be that you had to discount the value of your assets
depending on the the currency risk, depending on the principal risk. So you gold wasn't tier one. Gold was lower than
that. So let's just say you had a, you know, $100 million of gold, you could only count 50 million or 75 million towards
your reserve assets. And you you didn't get credit for the other 25 million because it wasn't tier one. But but it's tier
one, you get full credit for it. You don’t have to discount it. So that’s new. You have Russia back in the gold buying
business that was a headline that just came out recently. They divested themselves of all their treasuries some time
ago. | think | reported on that and bought gold and now they've been divesting themselves of dollars and are buying
gold. And so central banks have been buying gold 2019 was a big, big year for central banks buying gold. You have
these sovereign nations that are buying it to escape the dollar. And if it’s if, if their goal is to protect themselves from

a bad dollar, and they're buying gold to do it, you might wonder, Well, why would | be doing that too? Which is kind
July 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Clues in the
News wi...

@ Wed, 9/22 9:32AM © 1:03:00

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, gold, crypto, market, question, repo, bonds, money, dollar, debt, bitcoin, fed, buy, headline, talking, big, price, asset,

precious metals, world

SPEAKERS

Michael Meade, Russ, Jarrid Cavanaugh, Kevin

Russ 00:17

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ here. And this is our July 2021, ask the mentors edition of clues in the news.
And there's a lot going on in the news of all types, but especially in the financial news. And so | think there's a lot of
news that we can use to strike up conversations to maybe modify or adjust our investment thesis and looking for
opportunities and get people to be a little bit maybe disturbed or concerned about their current portfolio structure in
light of what could be coming. And if we have the right kind of deals and the right kind of strategy, then | think we
can show people some opportunities to to strengthen their balance sheets to improve their stability to go through
some of the uncertainty that we're facing. And also, at the same time, give them a great reason to want to refer
people to you, and to get you more connected with people that they have in their world. So I'm always everything to
me is about sales and marketing. The news is about marketing and striking up conversations. And then selling is not
about getting the deal. But it’s about getting the relationship and the influence. And if you always stay focused on
that, | think you'll find that the news is a great tool to meet people where their minds are already at, you know,
because the media is giving it to you. People who care about their money are paying attention, they don't always
know what they're looking at. And that's where when you can bring a little bit of insight, a little bit of wisdom, a little
bit of context. And you begin to demonstrate that to folks, whether it’s newsletters, podcast conversations, however
you choose to do it, then | think little by little you'll earn people's trust, they'll begin to believe that you're somebody
that is on the job paying attention, that is very focused and committed to your craft, wanting to do a great job. And
if you come at them with an investment thesis, that makes sense, based on your interpretation of what's going on in
the world in the news, then that's the next step towards the investment thesis actually being presented in the form of
an opportunity, a deal, that fits the thesis. And that’s how you kind of begin to build the progression of warming
people up to accepting what it is you're going to be offering them. And the great news is you never have to have a
live deal to have these conversations. In fact, it’s quite easier to have these conversations when you don't have a live
deal. Because it'll it lowers the the sense that anybody is trying to sell anything, it removes that temptation from you.
And then you can engage in these conversations to find out where people are out what they're thinking about what
they're concerned about what they’re hoping for, again, the two investor motions are always greed and fear. Those
two emotions usually can be captured in the headlines. Obviously, the news spends a lot of time focusing on getting
people to sturb. And they focus on fear. And that's good, because now you can show up with hope and solutions
based on the fear being peddled in the mainstream news. And again, this is how you get people to gravitate towards
towards you. So | think it’s a worthy area of study for any serious syndicator. Obviously, I've made it a big part of my
career. And | love it. You know, hopefully you love it, too. But I'm probably preaching to the choir, because you're here.
oe 6 8&8 8 @

tapering, if the market believed it to your point, then yields would have risen. The market called bs on it. So we don't
believe you. So we're gonna keep buying bonds, because we know you are too. It's my tech. That answer your

question.

Michael Meade 22:07
| don't know. Yeah. 100%. Appreciate it.

Russ 22:10
Was that Kevin

Kevin 22:11

was saying not only can they not taper, they’re actually going to more than likely QE even further.

Russ 22:18
They have you

Jarrid Cavanaugh 22:22
have a follow up to that? Sure. Doesn't that put the repo market in the same Jeopardy it was in during the Oh 708 an
actual crisis? Because if they're not going to backstop the bonds, why would any other bank take the bonds as

collateral in the overnight repo market?

re) Russ 22:39

Well, so I'm still learning the repo market. I'm not gonna sit here and wax super smart. The first time the repo market
came to my attention, | was completely ignorant of it going through 2008 2009 first time, | really noticed it is when
interest rates spiked in September of 2019. And they went, you know, all the way up over 10%. And | said, Well, | don't
know what the hell's going on. But when risk premium 10 axed, there's risk, something's going on. And so | called
Chris martenson. And he said, Yeah, | see it, too. | don't exactly know what it means. Didn't know George gammon
back then today, George would be my first phone call. And of course, we talked a little bit about the repo market on
the summit. And if you haven't seen it, and you're interested in learning the repo market, go go to George's rebel
capitalists YouTube channel, and just search for his whiteboard presentations about the repo market, he does a
really, really good job. And | think Jared, you were in the room, when he was explaining kind of how the, the repo
market really is the market. And now all of a sudden, it started to make sense. So just for those of you that don't
know, I'll give you my basic explanation or understanding of the way the repo market works, and why it’s significant.
So the repo market is, is like a pawn shop for major institutions and banks. So if you got a big hedge fund or
somebody, you know, it's got a lot of bonds on their portfolio on their balance sheet and they need to raise cash,
they can go into the repo market, and they can, they can stick up, stick their bond in and walk out with cash, and
then they can go put out whatever their cash fire is. And so, so | just think of it as a giant pawn shop. It allows them
to keep the bonds on their balance sheet so they don't have to take a loss but it allows them to access cash. And so
of what | say, you know, now, | don't see the sovereign nations buying Bitcoin, and maybe they are, who knows? But |
don't see that. | mean, | know El Salvador came out and said, hey, let’s let's let's make Bitcoin legal tender. Okay, let's
one. And maybe crypto will catch or capture a bid. Now that 130 countries have decided it's a good idea to create a
universal global tax. So another issue, you know, and maybe the remaining 60 countries that didn't play are going to
end up attracting capital, as people try to find a way to hide it. There was a recent article that came out about
companies offering Plan B passports to crypto investors to hide their crypto profits. So | think you're gonna see a lot
more attacks on crypto, | think crypto is more of a threat to the powers that be they want to have their own digital
currencies, George talked a little bit about that on the summit. And that really is a loss of privacy. Because they'll be
able to monitor everything they'll be able to stimulate immediately, it makes banks kind of irrelevant. Now you're
dealing directly with the Fed. So his presentation on that, which I've seen him do on his YouTube channel, too, is really
quite excellent. So if you get a chance to watch it, you should. But But gold and silver are acting the way they should,
in terms of people collecting them. It’s not being reflected in the dollar denominated price, because that can be
manipulated in the future markets. And if you study the history, just for those of you that don't know, August 15 1971,
is when Nixon took us off the gold standard. | think we all are familiar with that. Three years later, Ford in 1974, made
it legal for Americans to own gold. And that's when gold was added to the futures exchange. And that's how they've
been manipulating the price ever since. If you go back and look at the history of Bitcoin, you'll find out that it spiked
up to 20,000. And then they added it to the futures market and it dropped from 20 to nine, and it stayed stuck there
for a long time. So the same technique they use to suppress the price of gold. Apparently, they use to suppress the
price of bitcoin. But you can only suppress so long, because the markets are still relatively free. They're manipulated,
But people can still participate. So | think the reason gold and silver prices aren't going up dramatically is because it
behooves the people who control those future markets, not to let it happen. And if you want more information on
that, subscribe to gaggia gta.org, the gold anti trust Association, come to the New Orleans investment conference
because gold and precious metal manipulation is often a topic of conversation data is always there. But if you
subscribe to their newsletter, they’re constantly documenting the manipulations and what's going on. There's only a
couple of voices out there people who claim that the manipulation isn't real. I've studied both. | still lean more
towards the it's manipulated because | see motive | see. What is your thing, the motive and opportunity and ability?
Right, you put those three things together and you've got a suspect. | think that that’s probably the case, but that's
just me. But | would look at it as a gift horse and | wouldn't look it in the mouth too long. | would say hey, you know
this stuff. Silver is 50% below, its twice all time high. What other commodity can say that? Right in today's
environment? How long do you think that can possibly last? Does that make sense? doesn't make any sense,
especially as we drive towards clean energy and the role that silver plays in clean energy. There's just no way it
makes no sense. So | feel like there's got to be something exerting itself beyond that to keep that price down and |
think it's to hide the fact that the dollar is failing. You see it in food prices | mean if you look at all the you know use
car prices, rent energy you know list goes on lumber list goes on and on and on and on and on, even though they
vacillate | mean the trend line is definitely the dollar takes more dollars to buy the same stuff. And | don't think that
trend is stopping anytime soon. which is you know, how equity happens and why We want to lock in prices with debt.
So that as equity happens, it happens to us. And it makes that debt easier to deal with, you know, to say, Well, I'm
going to pay extra on my house every month and get it paid off No, by the house next door and wait 10 years,
because both houses are going to double, then sell the one that you bought in the appreciation on that'll pay off the
one that you live in. It’s a much faster way to pay your loan off, and you never have to pay down in in penny in
principle, you just let inflation do the work for you. That's why they create inflation to make the burden of debt easier.
And so, you know, the government is deeply in debt, the system is full of debt, the burden of debt has to be lightened,
the only answer to that is inflation. They're overtly committed to it. Clearly, we've overshot their target, they don't
care. Yeah, it doesn't matter. It's transitory Oh, it might be lasting longer than we thought. But it's still transitory. |
mean, if you read the headlines, | mean, the shift is sinking? And they don't have it, they don't have an answer. You
know, the answer is going to be they need a crisis to cover up a reset. And the COVID thing didn't didn't pan out as
planned. So I'd be looking for a war, I'd be looking for some type of a major event, where and | don't think this, you
know, variances, round two of COVID is, is going to sell, | don't think the market is going to buy it, | don't think people
will allow it to happen. But we'll see. You know, we're gonna watch the news and find out just my personal take. | just
feel like that's not the way it’s going to go down, it’s going to be something else. So just keep watching and being

tuned into smart people that are watching too. And I'm just happy that | got great people on speed dial so that if
bureaucrats can come in and completely override Your ability to manage and, and, and, and and own and decision,
decide and control your own assets. If you can be overridden if contracts don’t mean anything, if they can be
changed, it's a lot harder world to invest in. And so, you know, big part of what | think people ought to be doing,

which is why I'm really coming out strong with this whole process equity thing is, you know, you've got to be short, the
dollar real estate allows you to do that precious metals allows you to do that. And you need to step outside their
system so that if or probably when it implodes, you have real assets outside of their system that are likely to be
valuable and whatever the new system is. And that's, that's kind of the role of precious metals. You know, and then,
and then, there was another question that was submitted, that | may go ahead and pivot to, but but before | do that,
| just, | don’t even know how we got on that little topic topic. | hear. I'm looking at stuff going on. I'm seeing chat, and
I'm trying to keep my thought train of thought going here. So, Jared, Jared, | was responding to you. Right. did that.

@ Jarrid Cavanaugh 31:17

Yeah, no, no, it makes sense. It's just, | mean, the repo markets, a whole nother layer of stuff | don’t understand fully.
So

& Russ 31:25

yeah, well, | think, you know, the lesson that we got from the summit, which | was kind of already on that bus, but it
just reinforced it is that it needs to become an area of concentrated study, if you want to be able to look at a gauge
out there. That's an indicator of what is happening on the financial system. My takeaway from that special session
with gammon was you better pay attention to the repo market. So | got a lot of work to do to get up to speed.
Thankfully, there’s George out there, and all the hard work he's done. And that's a great place to start. And then, you
know, we can we can make that part of these calls, or, you know, we can go a lot of different directions, we can
continue to, you know, use the news, and we can create a whole nother talk where we just talking economics and the
financial system. And that would be fun, too. Or maybe they blend | don't know, | mean, | never get tired of studying
it. | never get tired of talking about it. | really appreciate it. When you come in and you've been doing some
homework and you ask me things | can’t answer. It’s like that. This is great. Right? Let's learn together. Okay,

@ Jarrid Cavanaugh 32:24

| put a book in the chat for everybody. Russ, I'm bringing you a copy of that book. Oh, nice. Okay, hang it up. Really
good. It's more on crypto, but the whole first half is about layers of money. And really good. Okay. Yep. Yep, yep.
Good.

© Kevin 32:38

| find it before we leave that topic real quick. | find it interesting that in that 2019, period, late 2019, fall 2019, when
they started having all these fissures, if you will, in the repo market, that preceded everything that is kind of
happening now. Is that a? Again, obviously, no. causality is one thing to argue. But | mean, it’s, | find it very
fascinating. Nonetheless,

© Russ 33:06

the timing is interesting. Like, Oh, my God, the financial system is falling apart, we need cover.
that there's another agenda, that it makes no sense based on the headcount based on the death rate, based on, you
know, the shift of statistics, from, you know, the flu, basically disappearing off the face of the earth, and COVID
numbers exploding. But the net net is that the death rate really was basically remained unchanged, and that there's
apparently treatments at work. And it's really not the deadly threat, everybody says it is. So there's going to be
people to feel like that | happen to be one of those people. And then there's going to be people who don't know
what to think, you know, they hear it, and they don't know what to think. So | think then what you want to do is, if you
get those kind of conversations with folks, | think the first thing you want to do is just kind of ask them what they
think about the reality of the threat. And if they believe that it's real, then the next thing is well, then what do you
think is going to happen? And that you go back to what we talked about in the crisis investing series, kind of the
sequence of events. And now we don't have to speculate on what it looks like we know, because we've been through
it. So are we going to lock the economy back down? Again? Are we going to put all this extreme pressure on
businesses on landlords on state and local governments who can't print money? And if we do, | think the probability
is high. in almost any scenario, you describe that the central banks led by the Federal Reserve are going to print
money with a magnet, and the way they print money, and I’m actually the newsletter that I'm just editing that is
going to end up going out later today, talks about this. But what you want to understand is the way the Fed puts
money into the system is they purchase bonds. And the only way they can purchase bonds is if somebody issues
bonds. And so the federal government, Uncle Sam has to generate bonds for the Fed to buy to put money into
circulation and to drive down interest rates. And so you say well, how would this is like the the democrats just came
out with this three and a half trillion dollar stimulus spending package. It was just announced, | think yesterday that
our current deficit this year is projected at $2.4 trillion. These numbers are absurd. They're obscene, they're insane.
But they're also the real world. And it comports completely, with the notion that they've got to pump money into the
system in order to save it. And the only way they can do it is if the government spends money with abandon and
generates the bonds they need to buy. And that's what they're doing. And so the facts, as reported, seem to fit the
narrative or the thesis. And then once again, it comes full circle to the idea that this puts a ton of pressure on the
currency. And so the question is, as an investor, both as an individual investor and as a syndicator, is what is your
strategy in the face of extreme pressure on the dollar? How are you going to navigate that? And so you need to think
about that. And | think if you can make the argument with the people you're talking to through the headlines, that
there's a lot of pressure on the dollar, and 100 year history of the dollar falling. And the question is, then how do you
invest in the face of a falling dollar? That's what the real asset investing report sought to answer. So if you read those
reports, if you read that report, if you watch the videos, you kind of get your mind around a little bit. And then it's just
a matter of you paying attention to the news with a little extra context. And then getting into conversations with
people and seeing what real people think. That's why we love going to investment conferences, we had a great time
at the summit having these conversations, we're going to do it again, in New Orleans, Robert and | are headed off to
freedom fest next week, for a few days of talking to people over there on that side of the world. And you can do the
same thing in local clubs, local meetups, you can start something, any way you can get people talking about it and
people are concerned about it will come out of the woodwork. And you'll begin to learn by rubbing your brain
against other people's brains. And if you are diligent to study, then what'll end up happening is you'll always be a
little bit ahead of the bulk of the crowd. And you'll start getting an audience. And again, once you've established your
credibility as somebody who understands the macro picture, and then you start forming investment theses based on
that, and then you bring deals to the marketplace that fit that thesis that people have already come to understand,
then the probability of people saying yes goes up. And the probability of you putting a deal that actually is going to
make sense on based on what's going on in the world goes up. Otherwise, you just out there pitching return on
investment, which is fine. But you know, you got a lot of speculative bubbles being blown up right now. And if you
come up with a good conservative deal, you just don't attract much love. Because you know, people are they want to
bet on Bitcoin, or they want to bet on the Dow, which is what 34,000 or some ridiculous number now, you know, so
you just have to, you have to, | think the other part of it is when people talk about returns is just talking about risk
adjusted returns. And the key is risk adjusted, how much risk are you taking for that return? And the risks that a lot of
folks don’t understand in the current system or counterparty risk? You know, it's great way | talk about this every time
we do this session, but you ask people in a conversation, hey, in your portfolio right now, how are you addressing
counterparty risk, and he's just getting a deer in the headlights. Because most people's portfolio is loaded with

counterparty risk. They don’t even understand what it is because nobody who's in the business of investing can tell
