it, and you're gonna keep it exactly the way it is, then there's probably not much that has to happen here. But if
you're going to make a change, if you're going to add a story, if you're going to scrape it and build it, then you're
gonna need to be able to get permits and get the permissions that you need. So entitlements are just a fancy word
that says we have the ability to build eight units per acre, we have the ability to build up to three storeys with an
elevator, we have the ability to build up to 10,000 square feet of asphalt, whatever those requirements are, you want
to know what they are. And that can definitely be contingent in the contract. You want to have done as much of that
work as you can ahead of time, but maybe not. All right, let Kevin back in what else utilities, you can as we just
learned from, from john, that you can be in a situation where there aren't utilities. Or you can also go ahead and
mute there if you want. Or you can also have, you know, basically municipal utilities that are robust if you're
developing sometimes during the utilities all so now you got to develop a plan to bring the utilities in. And this is
when you will have to talk to a utility company. So kind of piggybacking on what | talked about a minute ago, I’m a
big fan of getting the sellers permission, I'm going to go talk to the power company, about bringing in additional
power to this property. | want the sellers permission to do that. So | can do that for you the contract, | can seek
permission to go talk to the various utility authorities that | need to talk to. And | just want at the very least disclosure
that I'm doing it but I'd like to have it addressed in the contract. So the seller says yeah, I'm good with that, because
they're not going to sell the property to you unless you can get those things done. So you need to know so most
sellers are pretty reasonable about the stuff but they also appreciate being told about it. What else, city or county
use restrictions. So you may already know exactly what the issue is and the place because you live there work there
have lots of property there. But if you're going into any new jurisdiction, you just want to see if there's any kind of
restrictions perhaps the cemetery falls into this kind of a category but is there anything you need to know and if you
don't know them, market you build that into your contingencies. And then one of my favorite things to do, and this is
just a technique, what | call a pre negotiated extension, especially for syndicators. The big challenge we have as
syndicators is, which comes first finding the money or finding the deal. And if | get the deal under contract, all of a
sudden the clock is ticking, I've got to seal a deal. They've come in 45 and 6090 days in advance, and I've got to raise
all my money in that period of time. So that's an important time consideration. Most sellers at the beginning are
more than happy to give you a pre negotiated extension, it works something like this close of escrow will be honored
before November 1, should the buyer need additional time to close the buyer will deposit an additional $50,000,
which will become hard upon deposit in exchange for a 30 day extension to close escrow. So you've you may not
need it, hopefully you don't need it. And if you do need it, it’s going to come with some teeth, meaning and example
$50,000 is going to get into the sellers pocket whether you close or not. But then that's a much better deal than
having to go to the seller hat in hand and say, Hey, could we get some more time, we were in contract on a deal with
$400,000 too hard. And we couldn't close. We did everything we could we couldn't close, the seller absolutely had
the legal right to take our money, we sat down with him and said, Here's what's happened, we really want to buy it,
we need a little more time. And he was totally awesome about it. He goes, listen, I'm not gonna take your money. |
know | could. But that's crazy. I'd rather work with you guys and sell the property. He gave us more time we got it
done. And we own that property today. So pre negotiated extension go a long way, that meaning could have gone
differently, right? They could have been well, I'll take your 400. Now if you want to renegotiate something, write a new
offer. Ouch. So at the beginning, everybody's happy. Everybody's friends, everybody ever all's good. It’s only as a
transaction goes on that there can be issues. So it usually doesn't hurt to pre negotiated upfront, if you can negotiate
it without a hard money deposit. Great step depends on the marketplace and what's going on. Sometimes you need
to be able to show that strength Other times you can get away with saying we'll increase our deposit to 50,000. And
say nothing about releasing it to the seller just will increase our deposit their side, they may come back and go Okay,
well, we want half of it to be released. Okay, well, you just bought half of it back. So those are contract contingencies
| thought it might be worth talking about today. And if you'd had so many questions, we couldn't get to it, then |
would have saved this for another day. But there you go. Alright, so if you wanted to take a last look at our various
contingencies, and there can be more than this. Sometimes when you're negotiating something like a single tenant
building, you have an option to review the lease with the tenant. You know, for instance, you have a a well known
branded restaurant, and you're buying the building, and there are 11 years into their 15 year contract, and they have
another 10 year extension, perfectly valid for you to be able to have a contingency to talk with the tenant and their
counsel, just to get an idea of do they think they're gonna leave at the end of the four years? Or are they likely to

renew, maybe they don't know. But if they think they know what's going well, we'd be happy to renew, okay, you're
Jo

once they understand it would be thrilled to get to the point where they have to pay you more rent, right? dentists
Don't think like that any more than they do in the residential side. But it makes sense, right? If I'm paying a
percentage of my business, and | have to pay what | have to pay, you goes up, that means my business went up, my
income went up. So and then, you know, you can also give them some gentle period of the beginning, as they're
getting their business, you know, started and so forth, you do have to figure out how to account for all that. The thing
is, just keep in mind that commercial lease commissions are high, meaning you bring a commercial agent brings you
in at the tenant that can cost a lot, something like you know, 6% of the first two years, 5% of the next three years,
4% of the five years after that, whatever it looks like there's different ways that they get paid. But when you add it
up, it's a lot of money worth it. But you also might want to take the gorilla approach. When we were developing
office condominiums, we took the gorilla approach, we didn't just throw the thing on the MLS, we had a team that
went door to door in these neighborhoods in retail areas looking for the perfect buyer, which is somebody who was
leasing a space that was comparable to what we were building where we could say, Hey, mister business owner, for
what you're paying the least somebody else's property, | can show you how to own a property. And if they were
receptive to that conversation, they were a great, you know, candidate. So we found a lot of our own clients. Now we
did empower a broker to do that | wasn't seeking to cut out the commission, what | was seeking to do is making sure
| was master of my own destiny, | didn't wait on, quote unquote, the market to find me somebody, if your plan was to
wait for your commercial agent who doesn't have high hopes for the prospect here. To find a perfect tenant, | don’t
know that | go with that plan. But you've already got your mind around it. And you probably got a half a dozen
candidates, and you just get in conversations with those folks, maybe as someone that already has a successful
business and be looking to branch out a few miles out of town, right? So we could beat that horse. But | do think it is
a really strong way, especially if we're going to raise money for it. That's something that's part of the story that you
have is we have this tenant, here's why they'll be great. Now we had to cut them this particular deal, but that’s going
to give them a chance to be successful. We're only successful if they are, let's face it, even if they sign a 10 year lease,
if the business goes out of business, there is no income. So as soon as you are a commercial landlord, you are on the
tenants team, right? You are going to live or die by their business decisions, which is why we often want to
understand their their team, their game plan, their where with all all those things. So they've thought through it and
you know, business that has multiple outlets, probably he's got that figured out right there in the minority of
businesses that are able to open up a second location then they got to be doing something right. So good stuff. Does
anybody else who's on today have Any questions or comments for john? You can just unmute and chime in if you so
choose. Or another question you want to ask something | might have missed

20:14

may want to check out if there’s any local incentives, like some tips, stuff like that from the local municipalities.
JOHN,

Robert 20:21

that's a great point. in smaller markets, Kevin, there’s almost always money to be had tax abatement, zoning
changes, there might be Co Op money for utilities, there’s a ton of things you can find out about. And it always
comes down to in whose best interest is it that this develooment happens? Certainly you and your investors, but who
else who are the other stakeholders if you own the marketplace, and a lot of times there’s programs available, that
can be very helpful, we have a property with a 10 year tax abatement, part of the negotiation of developing it was to
not have to pay any property tax for 10 years, not our idea, by the way, that was brought to us as something that the
local municipality could do to contribute. So totally worth looking into that. Your commercial brokers usually a pretty
good resource for that. But they they aren't the only place to look. So that's great. Great input. Anybody else?

1 1 7” I AA AN
that's gonna eliminate the, the need for people to live under a roof. So we like residential property for that reason
commercials changed a ton. But you don't work commercial hasn't changed as much rural areas, tertiary markets,
right, the big city has changed those big office buildings where people are now working from home on zoom, that's
changed. But the place you go to get your shoes repaired, right? Not so much. So Alright, so that's kind of the
structure of the transaction. And let's soend some time on contingencies. So when you write a contract, this is
important for you to understand. So this isn't really syndication. But this is something that | learned from the
Godfather, and he was pretty passionate about it, we don't write a contingency with the intent to get out of contract.
The only reason we get into contract in the first place is we want the property. But a prudent investor makes sure
that if Hey, everything doesn't check out, | have some legal remedy to get out of the contract. And that's what's a
contingency is, it's a way for the buyer to elect to take their ball and go home. So there’s some common
contingencies that you've all heard of, we'll get through quickly, like an inspection contingency, | have the right on
pretty much any property contract that | can inspect the property. And it's could be professional inspections,
personal inspections, different if there's a building than if it’s just land, but the right to not only yourself, but with your
team and with professionals, get professional opinions get inspections, typically at the buyers cost, but you might
have a contingency for anywhere from seven days to three months that says during this period of time, we can have
all the inspections done at our cost that we want, the seller will cooperate with those inspections, for instance, they
have to get into the building. But it'll be on our dime. And then based on that not only will Is it a contingency,
meaning if we find something we're not willing to live with, we can back out we have to provide the inspections and
the reasoning typically to get out on that type of a contingency, hey, we discovered this because our inspector
showed us this see Mr. seller, you have this problem, we're not willing to move ahead. Now, it’s not only is it a good
idea, but it's just playing fair to make sure the seller understands the seller may not have known what the problem
was, sometimes by bringing it to their attention. Now you have the opportunity to retrain the deal meaning knowing
well we now know, hey, I'd still do it. But | need to change the price because now I'm going to have to take care of
this or Mr. seller, if you'll take care of this on your diamond and your time, then all move ahead at the price we
agreed, right. So that's an inspection contingency. In addition to that, we have our initial inspection contingency
what we call our go no go when you invest in an investment property where there's tenants. So in case you've not
done this before, if I'm buying a house to live in, I'm going to get to go through that house and get my inspector and
get my general contractor or get my roof guy and go through maybe my interior designer and measure and all the
things to make sure it’s the house | want even if it's a rental house, but imagine I'm buying an eight unit apartment
building and seven of the units are occupied. As a prospect who says I'd like to buy this building. | don't get to just
knock on the door and walk through Eight apartment buildings, | mean eight apartment unit, right? So what typically
happens is | write an offer subject to inspection, meaning I'm offering this amount based on what | think I'm going to
see when | get inside. And then within a reasonable period of time, typically a week or two, the owner will now give
notice to the tenants and I'll be able to go with my crew and inspect | have to be, you know, aware of tenants rights,
and management companies probably going to be involved and the seller or their agents going to be there to make
sure everything's good. And the tenants may have to either be there or not be there. But the management company
with the keys lets me in and | basically the purpose of that inspection is just go or no go, | walk in, | go, Well, it looks
like | thought it would, okay, let's move ahead are oh my gosh, | had no idea to be like this, I'm not interested.
Sometimes you get a pleasant surprise. But you know, that’s gonna be bidding on the deal. So go no go is an
inspection contingency, but often than in a residential deal that comes right at the beginning, before | soend any
money on any professional inspections. Obviously, an appraisal contingency is a contingency that sometimes is hand
in hand with a financing contingency. So we can talk about those two things. | make my contract contingent upon
being able to get financing, if | need that, right, if I'm just buying it for cash, | don’t need that. But | still might have an
appraisal contingency, even though I'm buying for cash, | might want a third party opinion of value. So those can
both be contingencies in the contract. And for obvious reasons, you'd want to make sure that Yeah, your lender will
make a loan on the property. And yeah, it appraises at the value that you've agreed upon those lots of ways that it
gets handled, if the value doesn't come in, we'll leave that for another conversation. But these are often
contingencies that are in a contract. What else title report, we often don't have a preliminary title report done when
we list a property, but ultimately, whatever has been recorded against the property, any potential defects in title,
anything that the company is willing to insure, or not insure, we want the right to inspect. And those can be myriad

issues, right? So title can be all kinds of stuff, you're buying a property, it’s 100 years old, that's very different than,
keeping with kind of a local legacy in the place. But when you walk in, you know, if you've been an Ace Hardware
there, it's a franchise, but they're all a little bit different. This one really feels like an old country store. It just it really
works. So | think that could be in a play to the strength of the property, its history, its legacy, you know, the, the
church and cemetery across the street that could be part of the charm, you know, these cute little revitalized
downtown's. And by downtown these could be you know, four buildings are definitely in Vogue, especially when
you're right out of an MSA like that. So | think there's a lot of potential, | always like to eliminate risk wherever | can.
And so the idea of finding the commercial tenant first would just alleviate a lot of risk, you can build to the math
beyond that, right, you can figure out what local apartments are running for. And once you solve the downstairs
dilemma, then you can pretty much engineer the performance, how it needs to be to create a return. And I'm gonna
guess it’s doable. You know, a big, big caveat today is just construction costs and materials that's affecting
everybody across the board. So timing might be impacted by that. We want to sharpen your pencil when it comes to
construction costs, it's a more dangerous time to be building from the ground up for that reason. Not only do we
have disruptions, but pricing challenges, and, you know, we're already seeing some of that alleviate a little bit, but
just depending on your timing on the project. But the housing components, the easier component, anytime you have,
you know, more than eight or 10 units, and you're not going to be on public utilities, well, that's an engineering job.
It's not as easy as just buying a package, plant treatment or processes or something, you have to really engineer it.
And if it's multiple stories, and all that stuff, it's all doable. That's all doable work on if you're that close to an MSA,
I'm going to guess you're going to find reputable trades people to come do that work. As much as you can get done
during your contingency period of your contract, the better, right? We're trying to wring out as much risk as we can in
a deal. And the best time to do that as before you own it, and satisfy yourself as to all these questions. You don't
have to be 100% on everything. But you know, multiple strategies. Here’s my ideal, you know, anchor tenant if you
will mini anchor and if that doesn’t work, well, then there's this then there's this and | would start some of those

conversations as soon as you're in contract.

@ John Graham 14:35

Yeah, that's great. The commercial agent that I've got helping me along, he was really thinking that | was going to be
held to just, you know, the mom and pop who wants to literally spot who's going to have a tough time won't want to
pay very much rent. And basically you're going to be with the residential portion because of the limited size of the
unit. They were thinking that I'm not so | am only permitted one more dwelling. So | can make that dwelling as big or
as little as the lot will amount. And so it’s, you know, do | go up a whole bunch, or do | spread it out is it’s just a, an
architectural piece to it. But the agent that | had working on, it was really focused on the fact that all well all all
you're going to do is, you know, have the one person who wants to use it as their own little v shop. And | don't believe
that that is true. And so I'm getting other opinions yours included, to see, you know, at such a small scale, | know that

it's going to be a hit outside the big metropolitan area, but it will just take time to mature itself. And so

© Robert 15:46

well, and you don't need seven tenants, right? You need one, maybe two key tenants to make the thing work and
make it a draw and make it work, you know, lots of ways to negotiate that with the tenant, other than just taking a
lower than market value, something like a percentage lease of a commercial building right now that | own, that's on
100% percentage lease, which means | fully believe in the business, in that if they don't make any income, they don't
pay me any rent. But if they make gross income, then | get a percentage of it, it's a higher percentage than it might
normally be in an escalation clause for a commercial lease. So it was my way of saying to the tenant that, hey, |
totally believe in what you're doing. I'm with you, I'm with you, to the extent that | will bank on your ability to you
know, articulate your business, because I'm going to just charge you a percentage of the rent, it's working out great.
So that’s another tool, you don't have to go full percentage rent, you can do some minimum plus a 6%, you know,
escalation, which basically says as soon as their rent that say it's $5,000 a month, as soon as five or 6% of their sales
exceed that number, then they pay the higher number. Most tenants never get to that number. And most tenants,
@ John Graham 02:26

| will be under contract in a short period of time, I've reached out to a commercial agent, and he's looking at
comparables and doing that, but it’s a nobody wants it property, because it's a lot of work. And it's the right type for
me, because | don't mind the work. And | see the diamond in the rough here.

Robert 02:44

Alright, so a few things here. What complicates any type of transaction is the market. So there's a reason that most
of the publicly traded reads and big institutions focus in the top 30, or maybe the top 50 MSA. That's because there's
a lot of information available. There's robust population, there's diversity of economy, all those things, the further |
get out from a primary market to a secondary market to a tertiary market, the further | go, the harder it is. on every
level, there's less trades, people interested in the market, there are slower moving town councils and cities and ag
commissions, there are less, you know, demand tenants, typically, it just gets harder and harder doesn't mean I'm
trying to dissuade you from doing it. Often it creates opportunity, because the big guys so to speak, had zero interest.
So it doesn’t mean there's not a demand. | think when you talk mid to long term, you can't just be thinking about
today's demand. So today in a lot of markets, prices are up big demand for housing, no surprise, commercials, a
funny animal, though, pros and cons of commercial rent, commercial, longer rent cycles, better durability of rent,
maybe a credit tenant, or at least a tenant with good credit, and there's a difference there. But also, in a more rural
market, this could be the equivalent of an anchor. So an anchor is a big brand you think, right? The two big stores
that that are on either end of a mall are the anchors and anchor tenants sign long term lease, they negotiate lower
rates because of their credit standing, you're not worried about the rent coming in. But then they have Co Op ad
programs and all kinds of reasons why we like those types of tenants. So we're not talking about a tenant like that.
But in the local market, a brand new building, you could attract a tenant. So my first idea would be to find the tenant
before you build. If you're open to what you're building and it sounds like you are then finding a tenant that was
signed a five or 10 years. Your lease who would see the benefit of this market and want to be in it. And again, without
knowing anything about the market, you'd figure out who those folks are. But there's always someone who wants to
be in an area. If you think about the, the more, you know, tertiary rural markets you can think of, they're still usually
ob commercial enterprise, it does well, whether that’s the feed and fuel or it's a restaurant, or it's the local
Association, whatever it is, if you can find a commercial tenant that would be interested and almost view it as a build
a suit, meaning what you're going to build is going to be dependent upon what their needs are. So that's the first
thing I'd say is that the further you go out, though, the harder it is, but we've already said you're not scared of hard
work. So that’s that's the first thing. The second thing is in development, mixed use is hard. It's the hardest thing
there is. And that's because it doesn't always fit neatly into the zoning laws and those kinds of things, for a variety of
reasons. But you definitely want to find out, | would say why you're in contract to buy the property before you pull the
trigger on closing on it, you would want to find out what could you do? And what do the entitlements look like? And
what is the maximum number of units per acre? And if you're talking about multi residential, then how dense can it
be? And now you add to that the fact that you don't have utilities, you've got to create those from somewhere. That's
totally doable, harder on commercial easier on residential, and it also will dictate sometimes the nature of the
commercial business that you can attract. | have a commercial business that would not be interested in anything
that doesn't have a robust water supply because we make beer. And as a microbrewery, we count on 10s of 1000s of
gallons of available really good quality water. So one of our search criteria has to do with that it's one of the it's at
the top of our list. other businesses really barely use water they could get by with bottled water. So those are the
kinds of things you have to be thinking about the residential complex should be pretty easy, right? demand is good
right now. Okay, it doesn't mean demand is going to be good in four years, or eight years or 12 years. So you got to
look at that. Does it look like it really isn’t the path of progress regarding that? Or is this a short term anomaly that
every market needs housing. But if you think that there's, you know, good sustainable housing there, what's great

about mixed use is that you have diversity of rental screen, right? You don't just have only residential tenants.
stepping into the shoes of that person. So there's that kind of a contingency, sometimes you get an area like se
Beach, Florida, where there is very, very strict architectural control. And you might have an inspect contingency that
is particularly about that. So you have a chance to understand what you can and cannot change in the facade of
the building. So those are just examples of other types of contingencies. There's all kinds of contingencies and

contracts. So anybody have a question about any of that, or about anything else, john?

John Graham 44:19

So how do you propose that we go about an environmental assessment and try to get as much done before it either
costs me the deal or cost me a lot of money? Yeah, | I'm used to the residential side of it where, okay, yeah, I'm gonna
do this. And after I've got it going, then | spend a whole bunch of money and then either | walk or | close, which |

assume is the exact same process under this commercial, but | I'm a little bit more cautious because of this unknown

element of the environmental associated with the property that I'm Talking about Yeah,

Robert 45:00

so we're environmental falls under the types of inspections you would have done. So most of us for even large
residential, we don't necessarily get an environmental unless there's some reason we suspect we should, your agent
will be front and center. And that typically they'll say, hey, based on its location, we're gonna recommend you get a
phase one environmental, those are expensive, and they take time. And who pays for it? Well, usually the buyer does.
But before you pay for it, and that expensive inspection of any kind, it’s good to get some third party input. So often
the companies that do these types of inspections that starts with a map reading, so they're going to have a series of
maps that cover all kinds of things, Superfund sites, and underground tanks that could be leaking, and former utility
easements and all kinds of stuff. And that's some of it's public information. But it’s not readily assembled public
information. So many of these environmental inspection companies have for years put together their own database
of stuff, it's part of what makes them valuable. So you can usually go to one of those companies to get a bid on what
they have available. So you go into a company like that and say, Hey, I'm thinking of a prop thinking of approaching
four, I'd like to ask you not to approach the owner, right, that's again, just to make sure that they're not, they're a
third party company, they're not likely to do anything, they're raising issues, but you just want to make sure, and we're
interested in building x. And if it goes the way we want, and we're going to contract this, then then we would like to
hire you guys to do the, you know, phase one, and and beyond that if we need to, and can you give me an idea of
what things you'd be looking for in the area? And usually their account manager salesperson wants that business
and will help you? They'll say, Okay, yeah, actually, right here, we have an issue that's, you know, often this, and over
here, there's this site, which has been a known contaminants, you know, 2.6 miles from your site, it may or may not be
an issue, but we see that, and this is in within our purvey. But you also probably want to get a flood reading, because
it looks like you know, some of your neighbors are in a flood zone. Okay, that's great information. So as much as you
can get, get ahead of time. The other thing you can do, when it comes to environmental, is work through the
brokerage community to see if there’s any recent transactions where someone's had a phase one done. It's a private,
it's not public information. But | found that most brokers will usually ask the client, but if | did a phase one, | bought
the property, it came out clean, I'm good, I'm not gonna have any problem with somebody wants to take a look at it
a foot, my neighbor, you know, guy buying the property next to me. So we've had that work a couple times, it's kind
of a rogue technique. But if you can find a recent transaction, and again, your broker is the one to help with that. If
it's an in house transaction, it’s super easy, they've got it in their file already, they just have to get permission to show
it to you. If they're on the other side of the transaction, you know, they may be able to reach out to the other
brokerage and find that out. So generally, you're right, the process is very similar between commercial and
residential, there's just different requirements. And then it gets complicated. Depending on the lender, lender may
have some requirements that you wouldn't even have, the lender wants the estoppels, you're satisfied with the rent
roll, because frankly, you don't care if any of these tenants stay you know that based on the current market and your
management company, you'll be able to lease those things up in no time. But the lender may not be so sure. So
sometimes they ask for things that that you wouldn't want. And that's the next source to go to. is the lender to say,
Mister lender, if we go down the path of this property, what are you going to require in terms of inspections,
disclosures and so forth? And if they say we're absolutely going to require a phase one, okay, then you have to
budget that. And not only that, the cost, but the time those can be time sensitive, so, but the more you can figure out
the better if it's got issues like wetlands or any of that, you know, you're usually going to know that it'll probably just
be disclosed at some level or you'll just know based on the topography of the of the area that that’s a potential issue.
Or a known issue like the grave yard you mentioned, you know, most of that stuff we we can if we look we can see,
but not always the stuff hides out for sure. Does that help? All right. We've got just a few minutes left. Anybody else
have a question or comment or even they want to chime in on All right, well, Big thanks to john for sharing his
property story with us. That was good. stuff. A couple of things. Let’s go over some upcoming dates on the calendar
as we round out the call coming up. Very soon it is our inner circle mastermind and SMC meetup in beautiful
Phoenix. | think it's actually in Scottsdale, but it’s gonna be a good couple of days. Hopefully you signed up for that.
If you're coming make sure membership knows about it. So we have a seat for you. On August 12, to the 15th we'll see
guys doing a Jacksonville field trip. This is a trip we're excited about. We love Florida a lot going on in this
marketplace. It's a little different format and that the field trips can be two full days in a bus, because we're going to
see more than one market. So we're going to get in Thursday night, have an overview of the markets and reception
and dinner and then we're gonna get on the bus all day Friday bus all day Saturday and a ramp up meeting on
Sunday, but you're interested in that market or just understanding how we view real estate markets. That could be a
cool trip. September 17. And 18th is the next secrets of successful syndication. It said the DFW Hyatt in Dallas, we've
already got over 100 people signed up. It’s part of your tuition. So make sure you come if you can, but do let
membership know. So we have a seat for you in a workbook. October 19 to 22nd is the 47th annual New Orleans
investment conference. It's a great conference to attend and learn it's a great way to get in conversations with
accredited investors. And this year, the real estate fund alliance will also have a presence there. So that can be
another good way to get some some practice in. And then right around that conference is going to be the next
meetup and mastermind we're doing it in reverse order. Meaning on Saturday, October 23 is going to be the SMC
meetup, followed by Sunday the 24th being the inner circle that way all the SMC members don't have to, you know
sit on their heels for a whole day. The conference will end Friday night, Friday nights, the big old party. It's always a
ton of fun. And then Saturday will be our SMC meetup. Then Sunday, we will do our inner circle mastermind and
January 7. The ninth is the 2022 goals retreat in Lake Las Vegas, make sure you get signed up for that before the
price goes up. All right, everybody. Well, thank you so much for being part of the call today. And we try to this call at
least once a month. If you have something you'd like to submit in advance, awesome. love to be able to look over a
deal ahead of time, but don't feel you have to do that as they come up happy to have an on the fly discussion as
well. So with that, we'll call it a day. Thanks, everybody for being part of the call. Thanks, Robert.

@ John Graham _ 52:29

Have a great day.
July 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Deals and
Deal Struc...

@ Wed, 9/2210:04AM @ 52:44

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

contingency, property, tenants, market, commercial, inspections, deal, building, rent, contract, business, buying, residential, big,

transaction, thinking, seller, inspection contingency, zoning, kinds

SPEAKERS

Robert, John Graham

@ John Graham 00:16
All right,

& Robert 00:17

well welcome syndication mentoring club. It's our Ask the mentors q&a for deals and deal structure for July 2021. And
we're going to talk about whatever is on your mind today, it came with a few prepared thoughts just in case. But this
is really meant to be an interactive call. So if you have questions, if you have anything you want to run by the group
that's always worth doing. So we'll start | guess with that, if you have a question of any kind or another, anybody
actually submitted a question ahead of time, but if you have a question, you go ahead and show your face and turn
on your mic and fire away anything to do with deals or deal structure. Hi,

@) John Graham 00:57

Robert, john Graham here. So a deal that I'm looking at currently is a old commercial property, it is on a corner lot,
and it will be a tear down. And | believe that its highest and best use will be commercial, plus some residential. And
so it's a rural property. So it'll need well and septic. And I'm gonna have to get fancy with how | separate the property
out so | can get the septic system in, and the well be far enough away from it at that point. what I'm wondering is, is
whether or not because it's rural, | don't anticipate a high amount of commercial rent, I'm anticipating that I'm going
to take, you know, probably at 75% market just because it’s it’s in the country a bit, but it’s in the path of progress. So
I'm hoping that that will be good for the for the longer term. So my question is, is should | focus this on the

residential portion, which is in high high demand? Or should | think of it more of a commercial, but not knowing that
that's going to pay off in the short term and short meaning five to 10 years term? Your thoughts please?

@ Robert 02:19

Okay, great, well, excellent tee up, is this the property you're in contract on or that you already own?
Jonn Granam 3 21:52

So thank you very much. | appreciate the comments. And Thanks, Kevin, I'll take a look and see what | can get out of
that.

Robert 21:39

All right. Great topic. JOHN, keep us posted on that. That sounds very exciting. And of course, one of the things you
always want to do is take pictures as you go and create a fun little case study out of it. All right, who else has a
question for today's deal? Call? All right, well, then let me share something with you guys that | thought might make
some sense. And when we talk about deal, just a quick recap, some of you've been on this call before. But if you
haven't, here's what the elements of a deal look like, you've got the market, obviously, that the properties in, you've
got the property itself, you've got the transaction, which is different from the property, right. It's the contract and the
terms and the agreements, you've got the capital stack all the money, necessary debt and equity to get the deal
done. You've got your analysis and due diligence on the market, on the property on the entitlements, on the zoning
on the potential tenants, etc, you've got the financial model, there’s going to be a loan or financing involved, that's
going to change over time. And then you've got the syndication structure. So if you haven't seen it already in the
platform is one of the early calls we did on deal and deal structure that kind of goes through all these elements. But |
thought that for today, what we might do is focus specifically on the transaction. So we talk about deal structure, it’s
not just the transaction, but the transactions important. And where you are. JOHN, for example, is about to get into
contract. And there's one level of play when you're getting into contract and a property that you're going to qualify
for and purchase in your own account. And then there's another layer when you syndicate, and now you're raising
money to do the deal. And it affects it in lots of different ways. So | thought it might be a good idea for us to go
through it. So let’s talk about structuring the transaction. It’s got three parts to your transaction, if you will, there's
your entry strategy. There's your hold strategy. And there's your exit strategy. So when it comes to your entry,
strategy, instruction, that transaction you have what you learn about the market. So this is part of the analysis. And
this is what John's going through, trying to look at the commercial market and who's viable and the residential
market and what those rents might look like today and in the future. So there’s what the big picture of the market
looks like. And then there's the actual property, and the, you know, inspections, and so forth. Obviously, if you're
going to scrape the thing, it’s a lot less important. There's still things you want to know about the property, but you're
not going to go have a general contractor spend two days in the building, if you're going to scrape it, right. But if you
were buying a building that was a part of the plan, then for sure, you'd want to understand what that looks like. And
then there's the contract. And so we're going to spend some time on the contract today. That's how you get into the
deal. As you're holding on, you got to have a plan. This is a syndicators plan as to what we're going to do. We're
going to operated for, you know the production of income, or we're gonna fix it up and spend our capex and make it
beautiful and sell it or we're gonna divide the pie and subdivide and sell the pieces, whatever the plan is, you have
your primary plan and good to have a contingency plan a backup plan. Now, we'll talk about contingencies in a
minute. That's a part and parcel of what | wanted to talk about today. This is not that this is not a contractual
contingency, this means what happens if Plan A doesn't work. So Plan A is, hey, the markets strong right now we're
going to lease these things up for a lot of money. And that happens. And one of the year everybody moves out
because there's a third pandemic wave or whatever it is. So you have to be thinking as the quarterback as the
syndicator. We know what our primary plan is, but we better have some backup plans, some contingency plans. So
that's during the whole, your whole could be short term, mid term long term. And we've got your exit plan or your exit
structure. And typically, you have a plan A, we're going to hold this property for five years, and we're going to sell it,
or we're going to wait until the cap rate reaches x in the market and we're going to sell it. But you also need to have
a plan B and beyond. Because what we all realize is that the world changes often without giving us notice. And our
initial plan sounded good at the time. But you know, | might remember my cousin's opened up a video rental
business, which was a booming business in that little tertiary town like the one video rental place, that was the place
and they had 80% of the market share. And it was crazy, great, right up until it wasn’t right today, that’s not a viable
business. You can't find a blockbuster anymore. Maybe there's one left, right, that's just the whole world has changed

in terms of technology in there for the business changed. | don't see a technology change coming down the pike,
you know, ground up construction. So but that would be a contingency to have, that would be pretty common. What
else rent roll, okay, if I'm gonna buy a property that has a bunch of tenants in it, I'm going to ask for a rent roll. Now
rent roll is just a list of the tenants and when they moved in, and I'm sure deposit isn't how much they're paying, and
when their last rent increase was, and perhaps when their next rent increases, due. And having been in this business
a few times the rent roll, shocker is not always accurate. So there's one level beyond rent roll, and that is to ask for
something called a stopple certificates from the tenant. So here's the difference. A rent roll is the landlord saying,
here's the rent, here are the tenants here are their names. Sometimes they'll redact the names, but before you close
escrow, you'll be able to review the documents, their rental agreements, their house rules, their deposit amounts, all
those things, their payment history, and so forth. What an estoppel is, and it's often required by the lender, not by a
buyer. But sometimes it's prudent for a syndicator to require estoppels is an affidavit signed by the tenant that says
this is when | moved in, and this is what my rent is. And this is when | expect my rent to increase whatever those
terms are very common in commercial buildings. But I've certainly seen it done and residential, and it's one level
above instead of the owner saying these are the rents, it's the individual tenant saying, These are the rents. Now you
can imagine, those are hard to get signed, you got to meet up with 100 tenants, you got to get them to sign it,
they've got to be okay with that, all that stuff. But in most cases, if you can get 90%, estoppel, you're probably pretty
good. So those are some contingencies. Then let's talk about maybe some lesser known contingencies. One is the
partner or professional review. So this is a technique that people use, sometimes they call it a weasel clause, saying,
hey, my partner hasn't seen the deal yet. So I'm making this offer subject to my partner approving it. Now, most
sophisticated agents and sellers are gonna say, Well, once you've talked to your partner, then bring the offer in, but
every now and then you can play this card as a contingency to say, I've got he could be a partner. But it also could
be a professional | have to have Take a look. You know, my land geologist has to buy off on this, because what we're
building is going to require his report and his input. He's not available until three weeks from now. So I'm willing to
buy it at this price if everything checks out, but | must have this contingency. If it's something like that, then there's a
good chance you'll get it. It always depends on the market, right? How strong is the market, if there's buyers waiting
in line and multiple offers, you're not going to get away with as many contingencies and as | spoke Earlier, the idea is
not to get out. In fact, | don’t ever put a contingency in a contract | don’t expect to need, if it’s something | know I’m
gonna go not gonna need, I'm buying it for cash, and I'm satisfied with its location, | know enough about the
neighborhood and the property, I'm not going to put an inspection contingency, or a financing contingency, or an
appraisal contingency by removing all those contingencies ahead of time. I'm a very strong, proactive buyer, but
don't remove a contingency you think you'll need. So amateur investors put all kinds of what if contingencies looking
for ways out, professional investors only selectively put in a few contingencies that they'll die on that hill if they have
to? Alright, so that’s a partner a professional review. Now, if the property is part of an HOA, well, that's a whole
nother area of contingency, you've got to be able to review all the HOA documents and the meeting minutes. This is
an important one. When the HOA actually does meet, typically, there are minutes of that meeting. And the Secretary
keeps those minutes. And they don't always show up as part of Hoa documents, but you want to ask for those.
Because that's going to tell you exactly what's been going on in that Hoa, you're going to see what everyone's been
arguing about the last couple of meetings, if anyone's shown up, you know, he always are. But so that’s when you'd
want for sure. zoning. So how do you make zoning a contingency? Well, the zoning usually is what it is, sometimes we
buy a property and we're our plan is to petition to change the zoning. So we'll want to have had that conversation,
you got to be careful about this. If you waltz into the city, and you ask them to pull up a map on a property you don't
own and you start raising all kinds of issues, because it's an 80 year old building and the needs this, this and the
other you are on the hook if something were to happen, where the city now is looking at the property with the fine
tooth comb, and they weren't before. So I've seen this happen, this isn’t law, this is exactly what happens when you
kick the sleeping dog. So it's none of your business until you own the property. So you got to be super, super careful
when you walk in and ask about somebody else's property, and you're bringing up known issues. And | can see why
you'd want to do that, hey, this looks like you know, these, these are all, you know, 100 year old units, and there's no
grounded power, and | want to be able to put in power. And so | want to go in and make sure right, and next thing
you know, you've you know, alerted the dogs, if you will, that’s that can open you up to liability some states more
than others, but just be careful about that. But just make sure that whatever zoning is there is the zoning that you
need. And if it's not, you have a plan to make that change. So that would be a contingency based on zoning

entitlements are similar. entitlements are the permissions you need to do something with a property. If you're buying
Commercial also can be that anchor or draw, | have a building that has, it's a mixed use building and has three
storeys of apartments. And the bottom floor is retail. And the retail is an amenity to the housing. Like we have a
restaurant and one of the things that the tenants love is they literally can walk downstairs to the restaurant either to
get something to go or to have a beer or whatever, that's that's an amenity. So the tenants don't view the
commercials and negative. It's an amenity. Now, having said that, if it was a biker bar that was open till two in the
morning, you know, create all kinds of noise and havoc well, then residential tenants might feel differently about it.
So that's a big puzzle to solve here. And it sounds like you're you're thinking through it. | don’t hear anything that
would scare me away from the project, just know that, you know, the, the utilities are going to be an issue, that
tenancy potentially could be an issue. Finding third party management, that could be an issue. So if you buy it, right,
and if you build it, right, | don't know that | would settle for 75% of market ran again, | would look for the tenant first
and say, Hey, here’s a great opportunity ground up construction, we're going to give you a really great rate.
Especially if you sign a long lease someone that signs a 10 year lease, you'll give them a better rate than you would
be signed a three year lease, or at the very least, you know, five years in a couple of options, something like that. So
great question a lot to it. Anything else you want to add or clarify?

@) John Graham 09:12

No, | appreciate all that. I'm only 15 minutes outside of a major metropolitan area. And so I've seen a lot of leave the

big city go outside of town. They're snapping up these properties. This one is on a corner so it has | call it a tiny bit of
a blemish but it's commercial because that's what's supposed to be on the corner. So you know that makes sense to

me. What are the right now? Pardon me? Sorry,

© Robert 09:43

what's their right now?

@) John Graham 09:46

It is a dilapidated falling down building that had been for almost 100 years. A the corner store the feed market they
sold absolutely everything and then I'm sure they even had buggy whips back in the day. You know if So, but the
family had the the grandparents have passed away, the the next generation are not wanting it. They're not wanting
to do anything with it. And so the interesting thing is, is across the street as a church, and of course, it's an old
country church that has a small graveyard with it. And so my commercial agent had said, Hey, you might want to be
careful about an environmental problem with the graveyard. And | had never ever heard of that. So is that something
that you've heard of before as a as a environmental concern?

© Robert 10:40

Well, yeah, it is. And the reason can be multifold, typically you have, it’s protected in some way, via the zoning. So for
a property to be zoned as a cemetery takes a lot. And it's a long term zoning very hard to change out of that
particular zoning, for obvious reasons. So sometimes it impacts the development potential around it. So that is worth
taking a look at, I'm going to guess in a small rural community, it’s probably not that big of a deal. Everyone who's in
the market knows about it, it’s been there forever, right. So there's a couple of places, you know, you might consider
looking for, like, just the fact that it’s got this legacy as the old general store, right, you might incorporate that into
your design, you might see no court a business that would have that kind of interest. You know, we have a second
home in a market that has a cute little town like this, and in what used to be the old general store is now an Ace
Hardware. But it looks like it was the old general store. So it’s a new building, they built it 10 years ago, but it is
