Russ 35:31

couldn't agree more. So Pascal, since you're still with us, has anything popped into your head that you would like to
ask or share? Otherwise? | think we'll we'll call this?

Baskal Korkis 35:42

No, no, I'm just No, no, I'm just really excited to start with Stacey and get that going. Because | really do need a
process for this business. And as | guess all the other business owners know, it's very hard to find people today in
training takes up so much time. And I'm just happy to have Stacy helped me with that. So | don't have to spend my
time doing that.

Russ 36:10

Yep, it when we first started the syndication mentoring club, we had three major promises that we wanted to build
towards. One was that we would have a full time membership coordinator, somebody to act as a concierge make
sure that you had a dedicated person who could answer questions about where things were, what's going on all of
that, that was different than our regular event team, and customer service for our listeners. And so we did that. The
second thing that we wanted to have was a robust content production setup where we were producing content
consistently. And it took us a little while to get that up and running. But we've done that. And we're banging out a lot
of content. And it's largely interactive in real world like we're doing here today. And we're adding to that had a
chance looks like we're we're in the process of recruiting some tech people who are going to be able to help on the
business operation side, coach people up on tech, and integrating tech into operations, we've obviously added
recently the accounting component, and finance, we are adding the estate planning and asset protection
component, plus we get the deal component clues in the news component, the sales component, the business
operations component and the legal component. So that's a lot, it's like seven or eight hours every week of every
month of interactive q&a, where we're talking about real world situations, plus a community calls and all that stuff.
So we did that. And then third one, which | felt was ultimately going to be maybe the most important one was
operation somebody that would be able to look into how various indicators were solving problems and discover best
practices, best product services, whether it would be document control, a cloud storage, CRM, accounting processes,
you know, on top of, you know, the accounting itself, it's just the process of making sure that paperwork and all the
things are where they need to be and all that. And, and when cc came along and set up OTS, specifically to cater to
the syndication, mentoring club members we were able to deliver on that and so I'm excited about where we're going
| think we're going to have a big secrets of successful syndication in September as the world starts to open up again.
And we're setting the table | think for a very, very solid exponential growth going into 2022. So and we're having
course people having big success and that's huge to when you have proof of concept when you have people raising
10 $20 million a quarter and you have some of the people early in the program that are already you know, couple
people over $300 million capital raised in you know, between five and seven years. Those are big businesses that's
big success and people came through this program when it was a whole lot less robust than it is now and did that |
can only imagine what the go getters are going to go do in this environment that we have today. And it's just going
to get better and better and better so we're excited about it and you know, we're excited that we're pulling money
millions of million hundreds of millions of dollars out of Wall Street and bring it into the main street after going
through the summit and see | think people got another view or you know, kind of input and what motivates me to do
this. And just really happy to help people and see people have success turn neighborhoods around basketball excited
about what you're doing there and your your neck of the woods. Maybe one of these days | get out there and
actually get to see it with my own eyes. That would be pretty fun, too. So Stacy, any closing thoughts?
Robert, he'll have some thoughts on that. Just for those reasons, I've never been a big fan of an open ended fund. It,
it might be easier to just target each property as its own individual deal and raise to that, and then just build up
enough interest so that these independent syndications are operating synergistically. And that's all in your disclosure.
So again, that's really an operational function. operations are going to grow out of the back end of the business
decisions that you make after you meet with the the accounting people and your business mentors and your legal
counsel. stays. | don't know if you have any thoughts on any of that. Do you have anybody that is actually doing an
open ended fund right now?

@) Staci Gray 18:58

No, most people are either sub syndicating or partnering with operators or being the operator themselves.

© Russ 19:09

Yeah, on a deal by deal basis

®) Staci Gray 19:10

on a deal by deal but

© Russ 19:12

yeah, yeah, we we, you know, our experience has been genuinely that's a safer place to play and start until you get
your legs underneath you. It makes it very easy for the investor who's putting money in to know exactly what they're
getting takes a lot of your business judgment off the table. It makes it easy to know when the deal starts when the
deal ends. So, but it doesn't mean that you can't be continually adding new money because you're looking at it
above. above it, you've got a component of maybe 567 different syndications, but they're all moving in unison or in
strategic alliance in a particular neighborhood. And that's part of the appeal. You're telling people, hey, we're gonna
go raise a bunch of money and we're gonna move the needle in this neighborhood. You know, it's you fix up a
property, one property at a time. But you can fix up a neighborhood by taking on a whole group of properties. And
then if you have some type of a synergistic benefit on the back end through an aggregation, you know, like we had
one guy that bought, | think 15 different apartment buildings, they were all small, eight units, six unit 11 unit 20 unit
was the biggest unit. But he put them all together and manage them as one big complex, and it was 154 unit
complex. And it operated a lot better at that level. He had the ability to sell it off individually, but he'd aggregate it
wanted to sell it all at once. So we stepped in, and we bought it all at once got a great price for it, and then turned
around and sold each of the individual buildings to individual investors, but continued to operate it as one big Co
Op. And so sometimes there's ways to do that. But each individual we syndicated the whole thing going in, and then
we parceled it out one property at a time. So again, there's a lot of different ways it's more of a deal thing. And as |
said, your your operational structure, and your accounting structure is really going to be laid on top of whatever your

deal structure and your business structure is in your in your in your legal structure. think if | didn't already,

©) Staci Gray 21:20

Pascal, what's the motivation for having an open ended fund versus doing a fund for project.
okay, and your inner circle, so you can call me anytime. So we can always have those conversations, ditto for Robert,
probably easier to get ahold of once he gets back from Belize, which | think is another week or so I'm not sure how
long he’s down there. But But anyway, so and I'm glad that you were able to get back from Belize and be on the calll,
because otherwise it would have just been Stacey and | probably would have aborted. Okay, so Stacy, do you have
anything that you've seen with your clients anything notable that you think would be worth sharing for folks in June
of 2021, having to do with operations, maybe something that somebody has had a breakthrough, or you guys have
solved a big problem, or even something you're stuck on that we can brainstorm on now.

Staci Gray 26:05

| don't have anything like top of mine that | feel like we haven't already talked about in previous business operations
calls, but we have just, you know, been having a lot of success with a lot of consistency and accountability in terms of
operations. So making sure that every 90 days, we're evaluating the progress, what's working, what's not working,
and then making adjustments every 90 days versus waiting a year or two years and thinking you're on track, but not
really being on track. So we've seen a lot of success with that. And then daily working off of process maps, instead of
just Groundhog Day reinventing the wheel every time right, we find that the syndicators are able to really live in their
sweet spots a lot better. | think one thing and it's not really business operations. But one thing that | have been
experiencing with a lot of the syndicators is a, maybe a lack of clarity on what their sweet spot is, you know, when
you build a business, you think, you know, like, okay, | want to do these things, and then you start doing it, and you
realize you don't want to do those things. So getting a level of clarity, and really having a level of self awareness of
knowing what it is that you're good at what you're not good at what's going to be fulfilling for you long term, not just
in the next 90 days or a year, and really building a business and operations around that.

Russ 27:34

Yeah, it’s iterative, you you learn yourself by doing, you know, you learn about life by living, you learn by making
mistakes, getting feedback, and then you just try to compress timeframes, how quickly, you know, they fail faster,
they say, and it doesn't mean you actually fail, it just means that you go down a path and realize, Hey, this is a dead
end, it's not as satisfying as | thought it would be. | am not producing the results that | had hoped for whatever it is,
and just being honest, and calling it when you get there knowing the difference between when you should push
through, and when you should bail. And you know, it's that that's an art form. It’s not a science, | would say that one
of the things that | think is important, especially for for syndicators, and we talked about this with the tree. But just
understanding that your business is an organism, it's why they call it an organization. It’s not static, it's very dynamic.
You've got cash flowing like blood throughout every where you've got the heartbeat of communication and
leadership. You know, | love my daily calls with my coordinator, my once a week we get a glance my 90 day, one
days where I'm looking forward, what do | need to get done over the next 90 days, and of course, you know,
opportunities come along. And it's really hard to predict when you're going to meet that person or get that idea or
have that opportunity. And then you have to make a conscious decision in the middle of a 90 day deal. Hey, I've got
something on my 90 day list, | want to bump off, | got something else | want to add. When we're flying solo, as | often
have in my life, | just change on the fly. The problem is, is when you have a whole bunch of people following you and
you make a hard left and they don't see it, they're still moving on forward and moving on the wrong thing. So | do
think that structurally, one of the most important things people do is set up that communication, heartbeat. So |
don't know if it's SRP for everybody that you are. Organizing stays to have those dailies and those once a weeks in
those quarterlies. And I'm guessing there's probably even a monthly in there somewhere too, but | find it to be super
helpful. And then to understand you have to advance on all fronts. You have to advance on brand building and
investor acquisition, investor training, and then presenting to people opportunities. You have to also be constantly
working on developing deal sourcing vetting due diligence, just organizing the deal in preparing the offering for the
investors and working hard to craft a match where you're pulling people in on the investor side whose goal for their
capital matches the types of deals you're coming in. And | know it is repetitive, but | think it bears repeating. Because
that kind of a game to start thinking about the idea of creating an acquisition fund or an opportunity fund and
keeping that separate from your longer term investment thesis. And that's capital that people have that they just
want to be liquid, they want to be able to get in, they want to be able to get out, they want to keep their money
moving. But they you know, and again, they trust you they trust that your your judgment that you're going to be able
to execute on on buying properties that are going to be resalable to a new group of syndicators coming in. If you
have a profit model in that, of course, you need to disclose that. If you don't, then you probably should still disclose
that you were the manager, whatever fees were involved, Mauricio can walk you through all those disclosures. So
that's, that’s one thing to consider. The second thing is with regard to the actual NDA itself, you know, non disclosure
agreement. Some people just use a nondisclosure agreement, which prohibits people from sharing information
you've shared with them that you've designated as confidential. But you can also include to include in it, we typically
do both non solicitation and non circumvention provisions, which means that non solicitation means that they're not
going to try to recruit your people, your team, they're not going to try to recruit your sources. And non circumvention
means they won't actually go try to take the deal away from you and become a competitor for the deal. So | like
having all three components, depending on your people if you can work in some type of a liquidated damages
clause. So that if in fact they do violate it, it’s agreed upon what the damages are, you don't have to go prove
damages. It's like a it’s 50 grand if you if you spill the beans on this course, you know people who are sophisticated
will hesitate to sign those more than one that's a little bit more generic. You just have to work with Mauricio to
understand what those documents look like. And then you have to work with your marketplace to figure out what the
market will bear. Most good people don't have any problem signing those documents because they don't have any
nefarious intent. People who don't is a litmus test for Robert and |, when someone won't sign our NDA non
circumvention, non solicitation, we just choose not to do business with them, you know, that tells us enough about
them that we decide we don't want to be on the other end of a transaction at that stage of the game, but that's us,
you have to form your own personal syndication philosophy in regard to that. Okay, so that’s just kind of getting in
into the deal. The other part of it is, you mentioned this concept of an open ended fund, that is both a legal situation
and then also a accounting situation. And it gets pretty complicated. Because when you have money coming in
early, and it's sitting there ROI is going to be calculated from the time they put their money in until you return profit
back to them. And the longer it’s there, the more diluted that ROI is people who come in late, you have to decide to
they get the same? Or how does that work? So and then how do you value the shares when people come in? So this
is not something really that’s an operational type thing. These are the business things that you have to decide. And
when you decide that with your legal counsel and your accounting counsel, in terms of how you're going to structure
it and what you're able to do. And then you have to compare that to what you're actually able to sell, then you put
operational infrastructure on top of that, so you can execute on whatever the plan is. Does that make sense?

Baskal Korkis 16:50

Yes, yes, of course, it can definitely become an issue if someone's putting in the money six months later, and wouldn't
be equal to give them the same wait for the money that came in later than than initially from the beginning. The
accounting, obviously, and | have accounting firms. So the accounting part, I'm not too much concerned about more
like the legal aspect and making sure that you know, anything specific | should be disclosing or saying, just so

everyone can feel everything is fair. But yeah, | definitely understand what you're saying,

Russ 17:25

Yeah, because if it's a fund where you're continually taking in new money, and you're continually acquiring new
properties, | think you're going to find it very challenging to administer. From an accounting perspective, it’s not just
the bookkeeping and keeping track of the transactions, it’s really the system of how do you value people at different
points in the game? And then, you know, from a legal perspective, what's the minimum amount you raise? Before you
go? Is there a cap to how much money you will come in, have come in? Is there a cap to how much money you will let
any single individual come in at? These are all business decisions, which you can bring up on the deal? Call with
I'm just getting comfortable with the idea of bringing people in. But in general, when you have an open fund in your
kind of allowing more people to invest money into the fund and constantly have a grow. Is there anything that |
should know or keep in mind? So | don't have where | don't get in trouble for not knowing what | don't know?

Russ 03:22

Well, yeah, there's, there’s actually a lot. So it's probably more on the legal side. So I'll touch on that. Because you're
here. And | think that of course, everything's integrated, right operations should really support what you're doing in
terms of compliance, in terms of due diligence, terms of reporting, terms of accounting, so operations kind of
overlays all of that. And so when you're doing a fund, and even if it’s a kind of a strategic or a directed fund where
you're you're targeting a specific investment philosophy, you're targeting a specific investment market or
neighborhood, but maybe you don't have the properties identified. So the investor is unable to underwrite the the
actual fund, that that's one thing that's different, it's very different in your paperwork. And it's where you have to
really make sure that you're set up, in my opinion, very strongly from an asset protection standpoint on your personal
assets going in because it's a lot easier for someone to make the claim that either you were dealing not in their best
interest or that you were grossly negligent if something goes sideways, because they didn't have a chance to
underwrite what you were doing. So | would suggest bringing this question either to the Ask the mentors when we
have Mauricio and probably even bringing up on the Ask the mentors with Robert on the deal side because it has
different components of that. And then probably even on the accounting side, with Mike when we do that. Because
all of those different components are there. But the first thing is just understanding that structurally, it's a different
kind of a deal, both in the paperwork in the marketing, and just in terms of the risk that you're taking, because your
judgment can be called into question. As far as deal selection goes, so | would be very careful to or diligent, | guess,
to really explain your investment thesis to explain your market so that they can they can underwrite that they can
they can your investors can look at it and say, Yes, we agree with the premise that this is the right area, this is the
right neighborhood, these are the right, things that are happening. These are the reasons why we believe we're kind
of skating to where the puck is going, if you will, we're ahead of the market, we're going to ride this wave. So make
that case, bring in as much third party evidence that you can, whether it’s newspaper articles, statistics,
demographic studies, whatever it is that you have to support, what you're doing, the more third party it is, the less
opinion it is the more factual database. That is, you know, of course, you put your spin or your interpretation on that,
but they at least get a chance to look at the data you're looking at. And then agree, disagree, one of the
components of that, from an operational perspective normally is going to be a nondisclosure. Because and that's
part of your process. The process is, you know, once you've got the offering figured out, and whatever your outreach
program is to pitch it to protect potential investors, there's a process, Stacy and | did a video a long time ago,
everything is a process. So that process starts with finding someone who's interested, then qualifying them to make
sure that they are eligible if your reg C, then they need to be accredited. If they're reg B, then you need to be
prepared to document that you have had a substantial pre existing relationship with them. Before this deal came
into existence. If you met them after the deal came into existence. Again, I'm not giving you legal advice, bring it up
with Mauricio, but if it’s a reg B, then and they're non accredited, then you're going to need to make sure that you
document that they are both sophisticated, and they have a relationship, your relationship predated the formation of
the the opportunity. So that's kind of step one, once you know who you're dealing with, and you've qualified them
both in terms of their eligibility to participate, but you've also qualified them in terms of their interest, and that it’s
suitable for them. Then the next thing is, | think, to have them signed a nondisclosure. Because if you're sharing your
investment thesis, if you're sharing your, you know, your due diligence and your facts, you always run the risk that the
word will get out on the street before you're ready. When you're in acquisition mode. The people who have those
properties are going to be holding out trying to leverage you, you know, especially if you're doing any type of
aggregation, where you're pulling together different parcels, or you're active in a neighborhood like you had alluded
to. So getting that getting that non disclosure agreement and having a process for what that is how you file it. So
coming back from process perspective, maybe you want to chime in space with respect to just the checklist and the
Staci Gray 39:48

No, I'm looking forward to working with you to beskow

Russ 39:52

Okay, well folks, that's it, you know, little little thin on participation because everybody's a little fried after the
syndication right. The Secret The the investor summit, the investor summit on sand. If you didn't make it, boy put that
on your bucket list next year, June 10. Through the 18th 2022, we're going to do it on mahogany Bay village and
believes again, it was we took a vote of everyone and they they voted two to one, overdoing it in the US are doing it
on a cruise ship, they decided to to one that they wanted to do it back at MTV. So we learned a lot logistically doing
it. It's a great venue, but we can only fit 250 people. So we think we get a few more than we had this time, we
technically sold out and had a waiting list. But now that we've done it, we think we can squeeze a few more people in
but it's going to sell out early. And it’s a great opportunity not only for you as a syndicator to attend and learn and
grow and build your brand and have strategic relationships and find prospective investors and deal flow. But it’s a
great thing to bring your investors to just to show them what you're a part of who you're associated with, and, and
get them excited about being a part of it. So use it strategically if you do it right. It shouldn't cost you money. It
should make you money. Everything in business is not an expense, it's an investment. You're the one who's
responsible for getting an ROI on it. So when you're looking at something like this, and you're not quite sure, hey, how
can | make sure that | get a positive ROI on a big investment? Ask us because that’s we have people who are doing
it, we can give you case studies, examples and ideas. But But before you do that, you know put your thinking cap on
and think about opportunities, people strategies, you know, ideas, relationships, all of that stuff, and how you can use
these events strategically, to build your brand, build your network, enhance your investment thesis, find deal flow,
build a team. It's all there. It's all there but you got to figure it out. It's your job to put the pieces of the puzzle
together. So thanks for watching today. We'll be back next month for July's ask the mentors operations and we have
a whole lot of other SEO mentors. I'm sure we're still going to be trying to crank out in the next few weeks. I'm sure
we're overdue in June because we were dark for so long. We'll see. But appreciate everybody being here basketball.
Thanks for being on the call. Stacy. Thank you so much. Have a great day, guys.
June 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Business
Operations ...

@ Wed, 9/22 12:15PM @ 42:30

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, deal, fund, investor, syndication, business, operations, properties, mauricio, accounting, money, buying, component,

summit, document, build, neighborhood, mentors, stacy, underwrite

SPEAKERS

Baskal Korkis, Russ, Staci Gray

) Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club, this is Russ I'm here with Stacey and this is our Ask the mentors in business
operations for June of 2021. We just got back in fact, | just got back late last night from the investor summit at sea. |
think a lot of our members are either on their way back or recovering from being gone. It was fabulous. We had an
amazing time. kind of ran the gamut. We had, you know, our usual little bits of controversy and drama. But we also
had really big breakthroughs, great networking, huge, great group of people, | would argue maybe the best ever, or
it's certainly in the top three best summit's we've ever had. And so it was a lot of fun. Now, we're kind of getting back
into the saddle here. So we have an inner circle member, bass gal, cork is with us. He is the only person out of the
two that had RSVP to join us. And since this is an ask the mentors and not a monologue, I’m guessing we're not going
to go the whole hour. However, we may have some things we want to talk about Stacy wasn't able to make the
summit this year, she stayed back because she’s up to her gills helping syndicators organize their business. So | have
a few things | want to ask her about what she’s been working on what she's been seeing. And I've got a few
comments | want to make, just because | want to make sure we get some good ideas out on this recording, even
though we don't have a lot of participation, which is of course understandable because of the summit. So best gal,
you're here with us. And | know you don't have a camera, but you have audio. Did you come with any questions?

Anything you wanted to talk about specific to syndication business operations?

© Baskal Korkis 01:55

So thanks, thank you guys for having me. Yeah, the event was amazing. | lost my first summit. And it was it was really,
really good, really, really good. | mean, | enjoyed it a lot. And my family enjoyed a lot, too. So it was it was a really
good time. And I'm actually looking forward to coming back next year. And it was, you know, extremely well run, you
know, especially since it's our first time on the sand. So, kind of jump in. I'm trying to remember my questions now. So
what the syndication we're doing now, we're buying, basically what we're doing is we're doing like a fund, and we're
buying, we're raising a group of money. And we're buying a number of properties in this neighborhood, where we
know there's going to be a $2 billion complex coming in, it's right by the water. And this i'm new, most of my
investments come from my own money. This isn't this is my first year actually raising money with other people. And
© Baskal Korkis 21:29

So to clarify my, I'm not planning to raise probably more than $3 million. And at that point, the fund would close. So
minimum 1.5, total cash raise of three mil, and at that point, the fund would be closed. And | would not expand any
more than that. So I'm keeping it between that that range. The reason is, the more cash | have inside of the fund, I’m
basically doing what Russ mentioned earlier, which is using that money to acquire the properties quickly. And then
work on the financing at the other on the back end. All of the properties fit a similar model, which is an example that
Russ also gave, which is I'm buying multiple multiple units, one block from the water in this downtown market. And |
believe that they're undervalued significantly, so I'm buying them there between 1960s to 1920s and doing full
remodels A to Z. So by the time we're done, we're taking it from $200 a square foot to $500 a square foot finished. So
that that is the reason is because you know you had a move quick there, everything is being bought out, because
people are realizing this is a great downtown market. And it's one block from the water. And it's very interesting
because this, this area is not a flood zone, even though you're one block from the water. So if you chose to buy flood
insurance, it's very cheap, otherwise, you're not required to have it. So there's multiple factors that line up that meet
my current investment philosophy for my other properties, and my other portfolios. And this, all the stars align for
this specific area. So | decided to move in and start acquiring and creating another, you know, cottage community in
this area.

© Russ 23:11

Okay, so that wouldn't really be an open ended fund, that's just a min max, and you're targeting a specific area and
a collection of properties that they can be underwritten. So | think that's fine. | think the only thing and again, we're
stepping outside of the operation. So this really isn't classified under the operation side. But since you're here, and
you're the only one here, we might as well have some fun with it. But But the idea here would be that you would, you
could either do that and and people buy in and they want to be in along for the whole ride. Or you could create a
separate Opportunity Fund, which gives you a little bit more flexibility. And it doesn't even have to be an either or so
as you're talking to your prospective investors and kind of profiling them and talking about different ways to
approach the problem, you can get a feel from them, how long they want to have their capital deployed. Because
again, you know, if they're flipping their capital, if you're giving them short term opportunities, how I'm going to use
your capital, I'm going to acquire this I've got another group of investors that want to take the ride and they're going
to be in it for three to five years or two, three years. We're gonna buy the property, we're gonna rehab the property,
we're gonna stabilize the property, we're gonna refinance and take them out. But that's all going to take a couple of
years and you've got six months money, well, you know, how about we just put you in the Opportunity Fund and will
acquire the property so | can move quickly get a discount, operate for cash, and then flip it to the longer term fund
for a modest profit and you get in and out with, you know, some some profit, and | have the working capital | need
and, you know, because the long term people don't have a deal if | can’t secure the deal, right, and that's what you're
up against. | know that’s what you're trying to do. We created a flipping fund a $5 million fund for that exact
purpose. It was just a fund all our goal was 20% annualized to our investors and you know, and don't hold nothing
longer than You know, three to six months. So that's a that’s a thought. Okay, so anything else operationally Pascal
for you?

© Baskal Korkis 25:10

For now Now you've really answered all of my questions. Just working through the process. And as things come up, I'll
make sure to bring it back to you guys, for more advice,

@ Russ 25:20
it's so easy to think that investor money is going to want to do what you want it to do whatever the deal is going to
do. And that's not always the case. And then understanding that every deal can be sliced up, you can give them
debt, you can give them equity, they can be in it for the long haul, you can create it with exit points where you bring
in a group of investors and let them get out, bring in another group of investors, someone right all the way through.
So we'll get off the bus early, and just understanding how to how to match all that up. And then the other part is
team, that’s the third leg or the third component is always being out there looking for people. And one of the reasons
| love having organized the scales, | don't have to worry about that | have one person | talked to, we talked about
what we need done and their job is to go source and find the people. So if you're using that it makes it a little easier,
you can concentrate just on the deal and the investor acquisition, if you're not, then you need to make sure that
you're paying attention to that component. Because by the time you realize you need more people, if you
everybody's maxed and stressed and making mistakes, you're already way, way, way past the point that you should
have been onboarding somebody. So those are just basic, simple disciplines and operations that | think everybody
should always be paying attention to, kind of as the CEO of their syndication company. Because you know, if you
don't balance those three things out, you can't scale and everything that needs to be done, that isn’t accounted for
in your planning in your model is going to land on your lap. And that's where your business owns you and not vice
versa. That's where you start hating a business, you started out loving. That's where you get burned out. And you
sacrifice your health and your relationships and your opportunity to study and grow and really enjoy what you're
doing. So it’s really, really important to stay in front of all that. Because once you get behind the obligations that you
have legally, financially, morally and ethically to your investors into your team, if you're a good person, they'll
consume you. And so | just can't stress enough how important is to stay in front of all that stuff. And team is where
I've always broken down and been poor and until Stacey came along. In fact, Stacey, | don't know if you saw it, but
the the interview with The one thing | did on the one thing, podcast just got released. And | was talking to them
about how when, you know when my wife got sick, and | realized that | needed to make more money in less time.

And it was like that the one thing | needed to do was designed to build in team and the one thing to do that was to
find someone to help me do that. That's what really brought seesee back into the business. And she did all that for
me. So it was kind of interesting, just literally they just posted that | think yesterday, the day before. So depending on
when you're watching this, if you can find it, check out my interview with on on Jeff Woods show on the one thing
podcast. And | talked a little bit about that, because it was directly relevant to what I’m talking about as far as
understanding that the circumstances of life and the hardships are going to force you to let go. Anyway, you might
as well figure it out before you're under that level of stress. | wish | would have but | did. So I'm glad that | did a lot
better. Now. | was actually out at the summit at sea for 12 days and didn't check my email one time in 12 days,
imagine that. That was just because Stacy's built a fantastic team. And | knew that they could handle 99% of
everything. And anything they couldn't they could reach me in a pinch. And | did not have to mother hand at all. And
it was such a relief, | just really was able to engage and enjoy the summit. Maybe that's why it was in my mind the
best summit we've ever had just on a personal level, because | was able to really be there and not be splitting my
time between the mainland and the island of ambergris key | was fully on board the island.

Staci Gray 34:03

One thing with team that we have just tested and passed the test, thankfully, is the importance of redundancy. So
you may have somebody sitting in a seat, but you don't know that person, something catastrophic could happen
something they could not be there anymore, and making sure that all of your infrastructure is designed for having
somebody fill in that seat overnight. And we run a squat and model at OTS. So every brand has four to five people
working on it. So it’s never just one person knows about the brand. There are four or five people that know everything
about the brand. They do different aspects but they cross train each other and communicate and know the vision
mission values, 90 day initiatives. They know the disc profile of the client and everything and so if There needs to be
a transition where maybe somebody needs a different ops coordinator or something else, it's easy just to take the
process map with the standard operating procedures, give it to the new person, and have them be able to step in
and still be supported by three or four other people that already know the brand. So as you're building a team,
having those redundancies will create a lot of peace of mind for you. In addition to just having a team
paperwork, making sure that you know, even before you've collected the money, just that you've documented who
the investor is, you've documented what your deal in your all that is. And then of course, you've documented your
your non disclosure agreement. Do you have any thoughts on that?

6) Staci Gray 08:49

Yeah, and Bhaskar, we have your three days scheduled. So we'll actually map this all out during your three day. But
at different points, you're going to bring in legal accounting, to make sure that we're all compliant. This is even on
the beginning stages, even in your marketing, social media outreach at all has to be compliant. And usually,
depending on what you're doing, again, if it's 506 B or 506. c, you're going it will be different, but the funnel usually is
outreach in then all the content languaging everything is going to be in in compliance with what type of fund you're
doing. And then typically goes to a phone call, then it goes to which is kind of just a needs analysis, not necessarily
really rare, where you're sharing too much. Then if that you want to share more details, then it's typically an NDA.
Once they sign the NDA, then you can share the one sheet or executive summary with them. And then you continue
down that path. So it's, you definitely want to keep and then all of that is integrated into dogs. You sign your G Suite
filing system and then your CRM so that everything is tracked along the way. So if you ever wanted to say you had
500 600 people, 1000s of people in your database and you wanted to query based on who met certain requirements,
so that you could schedule a call with them, that’s all tracked throughout the entire process. Which for you, because
if your Instagram following, probably be be able to convert those people pretty quickly, since you already have an
audience, and just building out that specific funnel that to make sure it's compliant. And then are you working with
Mauricio?

© Baskal Korkis 10:38

lam, | have had one conversation with Mauricio so far. And I'm planning to do more, but I'm working, I'm actually
willing to work with you first. So we can build out the team on that end. And so because | because some of the things
he was asking for, which is like a pitch deck, most of the companies even supply me one of those, they're like out
three weeks, four weeks. So | need to have maybe a team, not | not maybe | need a team in place. Because most of
these deals in Florida, they expect you to close four weeks Max, not eight weeks. So timelines get very, very tight

down here for good deals. Luckily, I'm getting deals before they hit the market. But still, those people still want to
close them for a week. So it really doesn't give me much time to create a, you know, a pitch deck and, you know,
solicit my group and bring it to market. So it's really, really getting tight. So I'm trying to perfect the process, as Russ
was saying, and so | can have it go through quick. Yeah,

© Russ 11:44

so, okay, so there’s a couple things on there. One is that if you don't have enough capital of your own to tie these
properties up, and then move them into the syndication, where you're not under so much pressure, there's always the
possibility of creating a separate fund. Like in the past, we've created what we call opportunity funds. And these are
funds that we created where we raised money from people who trusted us, and what we were doing, and were willing
to fund so that we could go out and acquisition mode in a competitive market and grab deals. And then we would
flip the deal to the ultimate syndication the ultimate investors, meaning that the investors who were in the
acquisition fund were perfectly free, and to continue on in the deal if they liked it. But if they didn't like it, then they
just made a quick profit for allowing us to use their their funds. And so you know, we buy a property for a million
bucks, and then we we'd flip it to the fund, you know, the next group for, you know, 1,000,050. And that group would
make, you know, $50,000, in on a million dollar investment in a matter of weeks. But it took all the pressure off. And
so the ROI and annualized basis was pretty good for them. And you know, and you have to give them whatever is

necessary. So and, you know, may not be a million bucks, whatever the number is, but it's not a bad idea, if you're in
