framework. Yes. And that'll be more beneficial in a lot in the long run. It may not give you
the overall degree of rewards that you want, but that's the way to go. Fantastic. Thank
you, George. See you next next month. Terrific. Thank you. Have a great night. Good night
All night.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

jo

45:18

Okay, let's go to Pradeep. Hi, George. See you again. Good. Hi. Just a quick, just a quick
summary. Before | get into the question, me and my two partners who are also on this call,
we are out in Hamilton, Ontario. And we basically all have full time jobs in various
government roles. And also we are real estate appraisers by background, what we are
thinking of,

ASi02

we can when you say what you say you're the grazers by background. What do you do?
What was the background?

45:9/

What exactly were commercial? commercial real estate appraisers? So we we have the
appraiser always

46:05

known. So basically what you're doing, somebody asked you to come up with the value of
a piece of property and you do it. That's correct. | need to give it to the bank, give it to a
bank and say Here it is. We're we we think it’s worth x. And that’s what you do you get

paid for that. | just want to see what you're doing.

46:24

Currently, actually, we're not doing that because we are working for we're all working for
public. Basically, government rules. So we are in the real estate Department of

46:36

Defense. So basically, let me see if | if | can can short circuit do it faster. So now you you're
furnishing opinions as a value to a public entity? Correct? Right? That's right, George.
Okay. So then | say so they say we're buying this for $100,000, | want you to tell me that
it's worth it. Exactly. Alright. So you're in the in what we call the cypa. Business you cover
there is? Yes, right? Yes, yes. Because they can say when you want to find turns out that

they overpaid. say, well, they would if | had an appraiser that told me this is what it was
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

23:03

Well, let's say first thing, he always says there's a story or give it to you very quickly. Do
you know how to tell a politician is lying? Isn't he always raise his lips a bully? That you
can't politics, a different politician will having once taken a stand, cannot backtrack on it
without losing stature. Exactly. Even if he’s dead wrong. So getting getting the politician
to back off is something you can't do or even showing the municipality that the politician
was wrong, is not helpful, because the politician is going to come back and he's going to
fight and say, No, | wasn't wrong, he's going to fight to defend a position which he took,
even though the position was incorrect. That's the problem with politics.

23:58

Now, the one thing | know about this politician is that he's trying to do the best for his

community.

24:03

They're not that that's a nice opinion, his opinion is doing what's best for the community.
Exactly. Again, that's typical politics.

24:10

And that’s the thing is our project is a project that gives back to the community. And
that's why you know, likes the project that so is there an angle we can work so that we
make him look? No?

24:21

No, he’s not going to change his position. He says, unless you can, unless there’s some way
that you can induce him to change his position. So if you can throw something into the
plaque that goes that in enhances his stature in the community, that would be something
that he could consider. Those I've seen transactions where we've had that having that
we're had developers, we have a problem with a community. And you get opposition from
the community. And what you say how do | solve the opposition when we say let us About
a playground for kids. We'll build a playground as part of this project. And sometimes you
can get a politician or somebody say, say, Yeah, | was against the project. But now look,
I've got it. I've built something they didn't have before. They're not building something for

children or kids. So it's your front seat, you're throwing something in, which is a benefit to
JO

JO

41:23

| think your point that if someone is going to steal from you, they're going to anyway,
remember Eric Trump telling me a story about believe it was a partnership with a project
in the Dominican Republic, where there were ultimately two sets of books you brought in,

you might remember that story.

41:39

Well, it happens to too frequently. Yeah. Believe it or not, | mean, one instance | thought
that was pretty brazen, but nevertheless very clever. was we had somebody that had the
parking facility had he paid his his rent or warehouse date based on how much parking
was done. Right. So he had two sets of parking tickets. | think what did you saw when you
didn't see? So somebody came in for a short period of time he gave them a yellow ticket
you never saw yellow ticket if they for a longer period of time they got a red ticket so he's
operating really with his own business. So what's the How to account for the income What
do you shut versus here? Here? It is, are the my income is based here’s how many rent
tickets | sold. And you never knew anything about the old tickets until you send somebody
in to look at it and found out that they were getting a different color ticket were you
auditing the ticket the right ones when it was loaded it was caught. So you're always going
to be people kind of figure out how to scan how to you know scam the organization and
that's part of doing business you have employees, which you feel you can trust. And you
keep if you can't, you got to get rid of them very quickly, but you have to have the internal
controls to see that it’s done. And very often the way to do it is to send an independent
third party did does does the purchase or does the inspection and then they don't they
don't know that it's been done by a third party. Kind of like go shopper Oh yeah. Yeah
actual. But there oh for your information. There are many companies organizations which
will do this. This audit or this inspection on your behalf and they know exactly what they're
looking for. Now, if you get for example, if you get a percentage of sales they will find and
show you this list of the sales that were where you got to present a job would you send
somebody in and it was they made a purchase and the purchase doesn't show up on the
report? What happened to it now you got to that’s what they do. That's where the fraud
comes up. Very not betting but there are businesses have two sets of books. One at our
show IRS and wondered, | suppose my own personal book. You know, but that Welcome
to the business world. And not to put cold water on the ideas. Most of the business this is
many of us. This is the ones that are most successful, they're honorable, they figure out
how to make the money without stealing it. So do get the right people. Thank you.
JO

JO

JO

JO

that. You have to just they have to know what you want them to do. And you have to
watch him and help him and support him and see if they have the strength to change
doing what they're doing to succeed, or or are they just limited in scope with they just
can't change. They can't do it. But this is any organization and it's only six, it's only as
successful as its as the staff. And the staff is only as good as the people who who

supervise.

B24.

| guess related to that is, you know, the famous quarter the Peter Principle that people will
get promoted to their level of incompetence. That's correct. So someone gets promoted,
and all of a sudden, they're in a role that they're in way over their head, do you push them

out the door? Do you move them back into a wall?

33:10

It depends on whether or not you can tolerate the the inefficiency. And if you can tolerate

the inefficiency, you keep them as you can't get rid of them?

Sa:20

Can you move them back to their previous role? Or is that

ga.2)

that's hard, you can't demote somebody and still keep them. Now, you can, however, force
them out nicely, or by doing by saying, Well, you know, | don't have the need for your
position anymore. So if you want to continue on, I'm going to operate at 50% salary. So |
can't operate 50% salary, well, I'm sorry, then you'll have to leave. So | didn't fire them as
such, but | did fire them. Realistically, he says | gave them something they couldn't
tolerate. So you can work your way up. But hey, in any organization to prove it's only as
good as the personnel that it's got. Yeah. And it depends on how they evolved. And how
mature they are. Can they relate to people? Do people want to work with them? Besides
their work ethics? Do they work hard, are they it’s coverage, such a variety of talents and
shortcomings that whoever is in the executive in charge has to make the decision

themselves.
JO

JO

JO

34:47

Okay. But let's let's go to SAP. A Victor had George, | said, just to just to preempt SAP here
he's not getting sued. Today,

35:00

Okay, first time in months. So | have an easy one. And | think it's a follows up to the last
question. | have a virtual assistant based out of the Philippines, Philippines that she’s been
doing a great job, worked with her for a couple months. And she's been using her personal
email address. And now she's asked me to create an email address using my company's
domain. My goal is to bring her on to more of an active role. She She owns a, like a virtual
assistant company. So she has other team members and | want to find functions within
the company to that they can help out with. But | also want to protect my investors and
vendors from potential scams and financial hacks. The main reason I'm asking this
question is, | got an email from one of my property managers today telling me to wire
funds to their bank account. So | feel like if something like that happened in the US, if |
had us employees, there would be more protection. But if you are my shoes, and you have
your foreign employee or employees, team members, basically, what would you do just to
to prevent any type of like scams like that from happening? | mean, is it something where
|, | have a phone call with each of my investors? You know, are there any other processes

that you'd recommend?

36:29

Okay, | hear where you're coming from. And it’s not an unusual situation, but understand,
you can even protect yourself against a thief. No matter how hard you try. Or if someone
wants to steal, they're going to steal just a question to how much and when and whether
you're going to get catching. But that's what we're going to do. However, having said that,
that doesn't mean you should not figure out a way to hold on to a qualified person. And
this person, you're talking about the fact that she wants to be part of your using your
domain using your name, that's great, that’s for you because she's qualified. So | want to
I'm surprised you let her operate by herself this flow. Because then what you've done is
you've created somebody who could be a potential competitor, and you created it.
Whereas if you was part of your organization, she's there but still part of your
organization. Now the fact that she did that the peers as part of your organization could
have a down there could be a downturn bad effect is real. Yeah, that's a possibility with
any with any employee. Yeah, | mean, | give you a concrete example that | was in volved in

in our company a company that had a good a financial controller right. And the financial
JO

JO

Yeah, | think good. A good advice is look don't do non conforming units because there's

legal repercussions. Right. Lovely. So I'm just curious on your question your Yeah.

10:25

Let me ask you a very simple question what you what you're doing, which will go right to
the heart of the matter, is the amount of money that you're going to make by building this
illegal Yona unit go worth going to jail. Then sta DCs because anytime you have a new
legal unit, they're there. If something happens in that unit, as a result of it, that's the first
thing to come after you and say the unit was not legal. So what happens now that you
build you now do the subdivision create extra unit, and now you have a hazardous fire is
created. you're liable, you're the owner, you did something illegal, and that they'll come
after you with everything because you did something illegal. So | think that the right way
to go. And I've always always been my motto. And I've seen builders and people who will
do anything for dollars, but a new legal unit that you never have, you never get rid of it.
When | say get rid of even if you sold it. And something happens, they go back to you and
say who created this illegal unit. And now it turns out to be Michael. And you can trace it
back to cause you created the product, something that was illegal, and created a bot
problem in one way or another from a hazardous condition or somebody that fell or
tripped or broke or a whatever is involved. It’s not worth it. Not worth don't even give it a
second thought. You know, one of the things that is one of the situations which has
occurred and this is analogous to what you're talking about, is when you have a piece of
property that has a toxic condition, soil condition. Something underground. Yeah. So
assume you buy a piece of property, you buy a piece of property, and it was a gas station,
it was alongside and gas gasoline leaked into the underground under your property in
your property. That anytime that her courage, anyone that's connected with that property
at any point in time, and learns about this condition is liable. As five years, 10 years, 20
years down the pike. You never get away from that illegal condition. that's similar to what
you're doing here. You creating an illegal unit? Don't don't don't even think about it. It's not
worth what what how much more do also what happens if you wanted to sell it. You can

sell it with the four units or five years.

13:26

In real estate, the real estate agents and the property managers, the property managers
say look, | rent out like a lot of my units are non conforming, there is risk if there's a fire
someone gets hurt, but a ton of people, like some people have hundreds of units as a
property manager, they still rent it out. And | get the whole the risk part there. And and

also just even real estate agents, you sell a property that’s non conforming people still buy
JO

JO

Well, what, what | would do is let him go through with the deal, and then don't pay him
would get the money. knows when you got to finish transaction, it's in place, you can then
decide why they're not entitled to get further compensation. And | think you probably win.
Because what they're doing is not is not? Let's wait, it's certainly not ethical. And whether
or not it's legal as a question. But | wouldn't kill the kill the transaction in the event, it
gives you an opportunity to get out or get you get to get the money back. So | would do
the transaction, let it go through and then just not pay him or renegotiate under the fact
that they're doing the there have a conflict of interest to which they're not entitled to even
though they think they are? So | would say yes, yes, it will, we'll say we'll go on, I'll get you
paid. Yeah, that's fine. But when the when the money is on the table, you can renegotiate
because they're taking a position, which at best is questionable. whether or not there's a
legality? | don't want to get involved with with that, because | don't know that the papers,
but there certainly is there, what the what they're doing is questionable as whether or not
they're entitled to take a hit on goes both sides, whether a sponsor takes their money
under the D under the table, or in another capacity and gets paid. So that's all we it’s not
something that you're going to solve now by any means. So if they can do | would if they
can deliver a good deal and say, good, that's good presented to you. Get me what you
can and then we'll talk about your compensation, or all agree that you're entitled to
compensation? much. When deal when deal is concluded, we'll talk or before you can do
the deal is concluded you could talk if they have something concrete. | just think that what
you're doing is premature. Wait, wait, do you see what they can deliver? They think they
can and so forth, that they think they can deliver something that's good. Yes, that is
worthwhile and enables you to get your money back or to get your investors out of it.
That's all worthwhile. So | would go through with it. And later on, when you go through
with it and there's money on the table. Now you figure out who gets what. That's the time

to negotiate.

19:59

That makes sense. Makes sense? Yep. That makes sense. Because at the end of the day,
even if | said yes, and even if | say, yes, you know, I'll commit to you that will deliver you

that compensation, | may not actually have the authority to do that.

20:14

That's correct. That's correct. So there's potential liability there, right? And that do what
you pointed out is something worth something very, very important. Because the potential
liability, you could have the potential liability, right. So whoever is down, it's down the line,

as your investors, they could say you didn't have the right to do that. Right. And then if
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

that's the risk of building any. That's the risk of new construction. Now, it is also a flip side
of that. The flip side is Yeah, there's a risk. But | if | can buy a cheap now, and the market
goes good in three years, it'll be gangbusters. It'd be Wow. Because | bought a cheap and |
could afford to and the market will rebound. That's the gamble. That's real estate.

Anytime we're dealing with new construction, that problem always occurs.

08:45

Yeah, absolutely. Okay, why don't we move on to some of our participant questions. This
first one is from Michael, Michael. Hey, George. Hi, Michael. How are you? Good. Good. I'm

great.

09:03

| have a question for you about non conforming units. So I'll tell you the short tale of a
building that's four units and legally all zoned and approved by the city. There's one
potential way to just close off a hallway door and then have an extra 1400 square foot
unit. If | add a kitchen have one front door. It's pretty common from what I've heard with

the insurance brokers. He says 95% of people have non conforming units

09:34

when you say it's fairly complex, who says it's commonplace.

09:40

The insurance broker that insures is one of the largest Canadian insurance brokers does
about 30,000 plus contracts.

09:49

Yeah, but what is he doesn't do building or what? He doesn't do building broker at that
point. So what Yeah, he’s just getting burns on Okay, okay, I'm just saying this depends on

on what I'm driving at. It's important where you got your information. Yes.

10:11
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

makes sense? If the answer is yes, go do it. The fact that realistically, you're to get more,
and you try to convince the municipality or these charities to give me the more that's hard
to do. If they don't want to do it voluntarily, you're not going to win it in a lawsuit. So when
it You may ultimately win it, you'll win the fact that you get it but the time is, it’s so costly,
and down the pipe that the chances are that this is going to lose its value. You want to
you don't fight City Hall.

57:04

Interesting. What if you have situations like very nearby where there’s precedents where

they've approved something very similar? So for what?

O77

So they've approved something similar, but they’re not approving your project? So what
what are you going to do? Nothing. It is the graduating field. You can't, you're dealing with
small minds. And what they've done something is they say, Well, that was a deck, you look
at that. They'll say that was an unusual situation. You don't have that unusual situation.
You may have one, it’s more unusual, but they don't look at it that way. So the end result is
victory. So don't fight City Hall. Unless it's absolutely essential for the to continue the
project or to make it work. If you haven't put a lot of time and effort in it and you want to
find it. The answer is is the reward worth the one I'm going through. So if | can triple the
value of my property by getting an exception, that may be one thing, but | don't want to

be hung up in the middle of a situation where I'm already committed.

58:26

Okay, make sense? Okay. Very good. Well, thank you, George. You're well, great wisdom

as always,

58:32

we have some good questions, some good some good concert tonight. Some one thing

though, to come out of it. Everybody's looking about let me do something slightly illegal.

58:50

Nice, but doesn't work best if you work, figure out how to do it within the existing
JO

JO

JO

01:58

One thing is going on, which is very important did | don't know, that you're aware of
whether people on the call are aware of is that the prices of construction have gone way
up. And therefore anything is existing, has a greater value. Because it's existing. The prices
of lumber and materials is just skyrocketed, and not only the price, but there's a scarcity.
And it's the scarcity, Daisey, which is driving a wedge between new construction and
existing construction. So anything that's already built, has an advantage because it's built
to replace it or to build something just like it would would require more money than it’s
been really the value is is not there. In other words, you're saying something that would be
worth 500,000. To build today, Mike, we might have to end up with a very minor profit in
order to meet the profit margin, you want to lose the risk in doing the building. So | can't
give you an answer it in this quote, because originally, it’s it depends on the location, it
depends on exactly what you are doing and what you are building. And you run the
typical risk of what the value of the property is now and what the value will be when you
finally built it.

3:32

Well, your point about construction prices is a good one. And that's one of the key
questions is are these are these elevated prices, a temporary blip? Or are they here to stay

| mean over the last four years

03:46

here to stay, they are not here to say there have been a raise in price. But it's it’s not the
it's not going to continue anywhere near that rate, | think of of what has happened in the
past six months or a year. So | think that part of what has occurred, it’s been driven by the
fact that we had to COVID you had two problems and it was a gap because people were
pulling back from not doing investments or doing building and now all of a sudden there's
a rush to build that was a rush. The supply line for materials doesn't keep up with demand.
Because the demand start is so late. Louise, you didn't it's not normal demand. This is not
saying well, this is not like what happens or in an ordinary marketplace. This is what
happened in this specific problem where there was no marketplace for for a limited
marketplace for quite a while and now all of a sudden everybody wants to get back in. So
you now end up there trying to get the same material. They're trying to get the lumber

and it's it's Just not there, not that it’s a higher price. You can't get it at whatever price. So
there's the demand is there. It’s just that the material is not there. So all you have to wait

or you have new people that are not willing wait willing to play and pay a premium. So
Die)

JO

JO

JO

offset what may have been considered negative in the past. So if you can, if you can get
to the politician and throw something in his in, in the park, that will make the politician
look good, then they're not going to change their position. Except it they'll say, Well, at
the time, | thought it was bad, but now that they but they're willing to do something that's
better for the community, | think it's worthwhile. So they didn't change really their position
based on the fact that it was wrong in the first instance, is just to say, look, yeah, | was
against the project. But now I'm floored because the community will benefit from what

goes on the project.

26:07

That's, that's a good idea. Yeah. It actually, in fact, | think the playground would work

perfectly within our project as well. There you go. | might steal that idea, George.

26:15

Yeah, | got that Steelers freeze for free. But yeah, put a playground probably around a
park or for kids, something that would be attractive. Sometimes I've seen it happen, new
ones, where shall | say? Well, a playground where | but | built a swingset for for young
children. And | put or both a sandbox and a small confined area, assuming that this is of
value built to the area. So if you have young children, young parents, with young children,
yeah, now you're enhancing something there. So they say well, wait a minute, this
whatever he was against it for? What what what what objections have now can be
reduced as a result of the fact that you're throwing something onto into the pot that
wasn't there before? No, why would Why did you? Why do you object? In the first instance,

why would you against it?

27:13

he objected because part of the rumor was that it’s an interprovincial issue where it's
going to happen in Quebec, which is a predominantly French province. Yeah. And they
believe that our home based business address was actually the one behind it, stating that

it was a bunch of Anglophones coming back to take over business.

27:32

Yeah. Well, okay. That's That's a tough one. That's a tough one. Because now you're

dealing with with the local built in prejudices?
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

27:39

Yep. What would happen is that three members of five out of our team or four out of our
team or cubic what | understand that, so once we got that straightened out to kind of

change the tune, right.

27:51

It's such a thing, and this is not unusual. But in politics or in various areas. There is
something called NIMBY. Yes. You know what NIMBY is? Not in my backyard. Right now,
you brought up that now that why they someone would object to it or be or she could
cover any, any type of a gamut of situations? And I've seen it raised when somebody say,
Yeah, it's great. Let's, we want to have a clinic for drug addicts. Yeah, but not my

backyard. You run into this anytime we're going to build something

28:42

better. They're not in my backyard was they didn't want to see people not from the region,

making me

28:47

find holders. Yeah, well, they didn't like they'd like to color their skin or they didn't like how
they were dressed, or they didn't like the ethnic background. And they didn't like the fact
that they are have the same amount of money. It’s the diversity as much as people or will
say, Oh, | am not prejudiced. Yeah, that’s what you think ways we try to do something that
they don't like. And then you have the debt all of a sudden, well, yeah, definitely. But |

don't want it. But Welcome to the world as it exists.

29:26

Thanks, George. that's a that's a good idea. We got to try and make them look good.

29:32

Yes. Yeah. It doesn't necessarily have to be something that’s so dramatic.
Ollee

June 2021 - Mastermind with George Ross

qe Thu, 9/91:28PM @ 59:24

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

appraisal, people, project, building, business, george, unit, illegal, deal, question, property, fact,

organization, build, money, price, politician, pay, investors, non conforming

JO

JO

00:06

Well, good to have you. Welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with
Mr. George Ross. George, of course, is best known for his role in the Trump Organization
having being Executive Vice President of that organization for a number of years, having
done the very first deal with Donald when Donald was 27, in business for over 60 years,
author of two best selling books on real estate and negotiation, taught at the law school
at NYU for over 20 years. And you did what? 700 and some deals for Goldman and
delorenzo. Before yours, correct? Yeah. So that’s how you, that’s how you practice is doing
hundreds and hundreds of deals. So great to have you here again, George. Good, good to
be here. We'd love to get your perspective. Just to start out with we just got some new
statistics from the National Association of Realtors. And | hate national statistics because
as we know, real estate's hyper local, but they do tell an interesting story, which is that at
least on a national basis, prices for residential real estate are up 23.6% compared with
last year, over half the houses are selling in multiple offers above asking price, even in my
home city here in Canada, we're up 35.2% year over year. Clearly not sustainable. You've
been through | don't know how many market cycles Five, six, at least in your career. If you
were in today's market, would you be aggressively buying would you be pausing and

waiting for a pullback? What What would be your stance?

01:48

That's a good question. You know, it's a this is one where what is your crystal ball say? As

it guys my crystal ball? It’s a it's a crapshoot. Yeah.
JO

JO

JO

controller before we hired him just put | tried tired back to two or three references one of
which was a bank. They've all he is highly qualified. And it was a as time went on and find
later found out later that he stole $60,000 you wrote checks got out got a bank to cash

the checks even though they were not properly signed by an officer.

38:35

Meanwhile, yeah, what's the safe? that hadn't happened but infrequently. Nevertheless,

when somebody said well, why did you hire him? Hey, he came qualified.

38:49

He's Rick, he's recommended highly by a bank. To handle handle money, no stole Toby,

welcome to the world. This is the world as it exists Just be careful.

39:04

Put the protections in place that did win whoever is involved especially there's woman
that she can't have access to the money by herself. There's some control to say well
before you do this, this is what you have to write send an email, this is what you're going
to use the money for. Or you want to see the check something that they have the balance
that what was what was what was supposed to be done was in fact accomplished. But by
all means, bring your into your organization. And this is something that I've been doing
now much more today than | did a year ago because every because of so much virtual so
I've got a company which | am an advisor to in a paid capacity as an advisor and they
have people all over the world. doing business with him or acting on their behalf? and say,
Well, how do | protect that? The answer is you have documents as to what they can do
what they can't do, and you have internal controls. So somewhere in your role in the
organization has to be somebody that is watching this whole group or staff that’s virtual,
that you don't have them actually in the office where you can see him. But meanwhile,
they have authority to do certain transactions while they're doing it. Yes, they have the
authority, but it has, they have to report back to you or someone else say, this is what |
did, or she how they did it. And you get authority. So that can be easily done. If in fact,
they send you an email, telling you this is the deal, and you get to get your approval. That
could be done almost immediately, because of the fact that we're talking on email, or
documents or scan, scan documents that can be scanned, and we see the actual
document. So it's controlling the output of what they are doing, while still in fact, not
stifling their ability to do it.
jo

JO

JO

them, they just do them. No, no

13:57

people still buy them at this point. But if you want to finance it, the bank is going to ask,
ask for where's the certificate of occupancy for five units? You haven't got it? So what are
you gonna say? It's If the answer is yes, you can make money but you already | think
answered the question is making money by the illegal unit worth the risk of that of going
to jail in the event that a catastrophe occurs. Now the possibility of the catastrophe
occurring is very remote, | will agree. However, if it does, you're going to come back to you
and you're going to be faced with the problem is who created the illegal unit or who knew
about it. And if your name comes up with it, you're there. And also you must understand as
with any ownership of property that If there is some type of catastrophe, they want to pin
it on somebody. Yeah. Who's the who's do somebody you? Who created? So | would, |
certainly wouldn't say work recommended, but | would oppose it. make as much money as
you can, on a legal basis. Don't don't do something that is illegal, even though it’s very

attractive.

15:33

That's about as clear as it gets. Yep. Okay. George, this one is from my business. And I've
got a dilemma with two former partners on a project where these former partners
basically found the deal, they took some compensation as co sponsors in the deal, they
were the only people that so far have made any money out of this particular deal. And in
in the time period, since they have exited the project, they have sold their interest in the
project. And they no longer consider themselves to be part of the project, although they
appeared as co sponsors, in this particular project as part of the capital race, which was,
you know, an SEC exempt 506 b offering. They then approached me a couple of weeks
ago and said, | may have a buyer for this particular piece of land. And that's one possible
exit one way that we could get the original investors to safety. And | would be certainly
open to that as a way of getting the investors to safety. But then they ask for it to be
compensated, if they actually are successful in finding a buyer for this property. So here,
again, they would be the only people to make money. And yet, they're not licensed
people. So they can't take a real estate commission. They are listed as a co sponsor on the
original offering, | kind of see a conflict of interest. What what are your thoughts? What,

how do you think we should proceed under those circumstances?

sly
JO

jo

jo

JO

29:41

That would involve a tremendous amount of dollars could be something small. So what
can | do to make this a better project? What can speak to the party? What can | do to get

you to change your mind? To change your position? See what he comes up with?

29:56

And he's actually he’s open the line to us to speak to him if we need to. So, go. So jump in.

Yeah. Okay. That was great. Thank you, George. You're welcome.

30:11

Okay. This next question is from Patrick, who could not be on the line. So we'll ask him for
him. And he says, different people have different skill sets different levels of experience.
And when you are managing your team, which, remember was pretty sizable. It can be
challenging to find the right people in the right role. How did you decide that had a
balance between Junior people who can be great worker bees, but maybe require
significant training and mentoring versus senior people who can clearly exercise
leadership, but may not be willing necessarily to roll up their sleeves when, when it's

required? How do you balance that organization? How do you make that decision?

30:55

Yes, executive decision which every good executive has to make, you can't bounce if you
don't know what people's strengths or weaknesses are, until you put them into the
position of the frontline and see how they operate. And then sometimes you can help
them you can push them up and and show them how to operate better with the skills that
they have. And other times you just have to get rid of them because they're there. They'll
never achieve the level that you want them to operate. This is any business that you have
to get involved with. | mean, | had to in my law firm. Yeah, | take any young lawyer and
find out he had all the all the credentials, but then he couldn't operate with a client does
he didn't do what was necessary in the amount of the work. What do you do to get rid of
what | was a very good lawyer, | said to him, you should not be a lawyer. You make all the
right decisions, but you don't do the work necessary to reach that decision. You want to be
a broker you want became a broker in another locality. And he became extremely
successful. He says, Thanks, great. Now not for making me a broker. He didn't have the
qualifications to do the job that he was hired to do. And this is what you find with any

organization is the personnel do a qualified to do what | want them to do. In order to do
JO

JO

JO

JO

you didn't have the right to do that you're successful, you end up with at worst a lawsuit
then with legal ramifications. At best, that's what you have. and at worst, if they end up
losing liability, you could be liable for the damage that they've suffered as a result of what

you put what you're permitted to be done that was either unethical or illegal.

21:08

Yeah, | mean, | could see a scenario where, on the one hand, we pay them the
compensation, | get sued by the investors and on the other hand, don't pay them the

compensation get sued by the former partners.

21:17

Correct? Correct. | don't know what Alright, so far, we've we talked about two items, and

we both were both talking about illegality and one foot is this a trend in Canada?

21:31

This particular deal is actually in the US. Okay. All right. Let's go to let's go to Matt.
Hopefully, this one’s not illegal. Okay.

21:46

Good evening, George. Sorry, | was off screen. Somebody left some cooking product in the
oven. And | turned it on for supper. And basically, | have a smoke screen in the house now.
Oops. You know, when you try to do too many things at once. Let me get to a question. So
locally, we have a politician who opposes one of our projects recently, he formed his
opinion about the project from rumor, as an incorrect rumor on top of that, subsequently,
he asked the city to oppose us and has made a motion, sort of to block us on the project.
As well, the media, local news picked up the story picked up the wrong rumor. And rather
than the press for a couple of days, now, we've had a chance to actually sit down and I've
spoke with the counselor, and he secretly is on our side and likes the project. What can we
do to sort of give ourselves a better stance and negotiate with the city now and the
counselor? Because the fact is that in politics, as you know, George, once you put your
foot in your mouth, you can't go back? Yeah. How would we position ourselves to be able

to negotiate and try and change that stance?
JO

JO

JO

JO

you gotta you got a hot market, but | do is to great extent | think it’s a it’s not | wouldn't
say a phony market or usually it's just that it's affected by the what has what has gone on?
And what would be my personal feeling is if | wouldn't rush to get involved or to get in, |

would wait, maybe two, three months. And let's see, see how they settled down.

05:52

| think that makes a lot of sense. | mean, in the last 40 days, lumber prices have fallen

almost 50% to a tee from the highs and

06:02

you right, they've fallen that price. But the only reason they were up that high is because
the demand and supply stripped the supply. Correct. So builders were willing to pay any
price to keep a project going. And it’s not it's not indicative of we were being a true
marketplace, it was just a situation where some builders would pay more to get what they
need. And that could be because they had a necessity to build in a certain period of time,
they were already invested. And they had to code how to end up with completion. So it's
it's it's hard to put a put a finger on it, except that it’s illusionary an illusory market as a

result of a forced shortage.

06:58

So in market conditions like this, where there's a big increase in the cost of new
construction, would it make sense to focus on redevelopment of potentially functionally

obsolete product? Rather than building ground up?

07:13

Well, | can't get it. You can't say is it better at the point to go for existing project? Yes. To
as against the new project, the new project and a new area? If the market is there, yes,
you'll get the price. However, something is built already has an advantage because it's
there. After understand and what's in actually drives construction is there is a gap is a gap
from the time it's an idea to the time it’s finished. Right? All right. Now, how long is that
gap? We don't know. You may know it, depending if you're building something fairly small.
You say, Okay, | can build it and have my construction finished in nine months or a year.
But once you go beyond that, and you're building something substantial, maybe we're

talking two or three years, well, the market could be entirely different to us for years. But
JO

how you go about your appraisals. And a lot of what you do in doing the appraisal work is
something you ought to do if you're going into a project. How do you figure out the value?
Well go look at the comparables, what's going on in the neighborhood, what's going on
with an area that is and what was price was paid for something that was similar. So when
you come up with an appraisal, you take into account or a number of factors which are
which are essential in for you to come up with your opinion. So you now say somebody
says, How much is the property say, well, it’s worth a million dollars, what makes you think
it's worth a million dollars? Well, there was something that was done two months ago,
which is very similar. And that would that came up to a million. And you use that as your
comparable? Fine. That's what you do as appraisals. Now, it doesn't mean that you're
right, it Put your finger you're coming up with a valuation. And you and somebody else is
relying on your evaluation to do either dismiss it or say | did the right thing. And now you
want to do it yourself for your own business? Why? Go Go? Go? Great. That's great. That's
great. You got the expertise. And you have probably among the various qualities, the
diversity in what you appraise that some will have more experience on office building
something more experience on shopping center, somebody had experience on a vacant
land, somebody has developed, whatever the fact that you've in that in the appraisal
business, you have so many different types of properties that you're appraising, and you
you're going to use that in your organization with your with your other partners. That's
great. That's great. | mean, what better diet if | wanted to get good your feedback as to
whether | ought to buy an apartment, apartment building? When | talked to somebody
who never appraised apartment buildings, of course not. | don't want to have somebody
who did it, not to the extent that your organization that you're building has the diversity of
talent, that’s wonderful. That's exactly what you want, what you want to have. So you got
the area, you got additional expertise. And you may come up with a project that you
know nothing about, but your partners do. That's great. | didn't see anything wrong with |
think it's a natural advancement for your organization. And you can make all make a lot
of money and still do what you're doing. There's nothing to say that you can't you can't
participate in projects, building projects that you think are going to work. And the fact
that you have the background, the appraisal background, gives you credibility with
potential investors. Because you come up and you say, here's the value based on all my
experience, I've been valuing properties like this for the last 10 years. And if | tell you it's

worth X dollars, that's true, because of my experience. That's great for investors to hear.

53:04

That's good to hear. At our current rules, George, it's sort of conflict of interest. So we can

actually do any appraisals until we leave our government.
JO

JO

JO

BSc

No, I'm not saying do anything illegal. Right. | know, once we meet, but what | what what
we are talking about is whether or not it's worthwhile for you to take the expertise that
you have developed in the venue appraisals, and use that to your own advantage and
future deals. Not involving the government dancer. Sure. Exactly. Okay. That's natural. |
know it's typical. In many businesses, where they the person in charge of the business or
has a major role had had some governmental position where they did something that was
value and you're going to use that in your treaty. That's, that’s what you're looking for. So |
certainly wouldn't do it, where it's going to create a conflict with what you're doing now.
But you can bridge you can eliminate the conflict by doing it separately. Exactly. Yeah.
That's great. No, it's a highly recommended new, natural advancement of the expertise
which you all have. And the fact that you get diversity that you it's not only one person
doing the appraisals, but it's a group. That's tremendous value. Because something that
you may not have seen, they have seen. Precisely, yeah. Then you got the advantage of
that. That's great. Thank you, Joyce. Good luck. | think it's a great idea. | think it worked
very well. Thank you. Thank you. Good too.

54:49

Okay, one last question, George. Before we wrap up, go ahead. We're working with a
team of architects and planning consultants looking to get higher density ona ona
number of different projects as it turns out, and I'm sure this is something you encounter
many times in Manhattan all over New York. Now, I'll give you a simple example. Right
now we have a parcel that zoned to do nine storeys by right. There's a secondary plan
overlay that would allow 12. storeys, but for some reason, the secondary plan is
subordinate to the primary plan, and should in fact, be the other way around. So we often
get feedback from the planning department from city councilors saying oh, no, you can't
get that height or Oh, no, you can't get that setback. How do you decide when to back
down and say, Okay, well, you know, we stopped fighting for this minor variance, versus

fighting the fight and really going for it. How do you make that decision?

55:52

Easy. It's an easy decision, do it. Don't fight, don't fight City Hall, you're not going to get
them Gee, if you're going to win the various when the change, it's going to take years and
a lot of dollars to do it. Plus the fact if you make the look bad, there'll be ftu forever. So
you have to decide the can you live with it as they say the variance exists? Or there is no

variance, though is can you build something within the existing zoning structure? That
jo

JO

JO

JO

worth, they'll pass it off on you.

47:16

That's fine. So this is what we're considering and wanted to get your feedback and your
thoughts. We're considering forming a new independent private appraisal company, in
which all three of us would be basically principals, and then hire more junior appraisers in
order to scale the business. We think by working together, we'll have increased focus on
building this consulting business on the side and working on our land development deals,
which is what we are focused on right now. Okay, so we believe there is synergy between
the appraisal business and the land development business. So what we wanted to ask you
is, do you see any conflict of interest between the appraisal business that we're potentially
looking to start up and the land development business that would suggest this is a bad
idea?

48:05

The answer is no. No, right? No, no, | say no, at this point, thanks to the fact that you're
qualified to do appraisals, and have built a reputation on on a deal, doing appraisals, and
coming up with values of property, that's a natural for ending up doing real estate deals
on your own. So now, if something comes if you see if you are interested in doing a land
deal, or or a project, the fact that you could you know how, from your past experience,
how you would value that project? That's, that's great. That's great. Right, what you're
doing is you're taking your ability to figure out what the value of something is, and using it
for your own benefit by buying it or building it. There's no conflict there.

48:57

Right. And we also wanted to find another income stream as we can exit the government

and then have this as a full time. So that’s what we're basically looking to

49:08

write. That's great. That's fine. There's no particular conflict and what you you what you're
planning on doing is utilizing the expertise that you have in developing values for third
parties, be good be municipalities aware, and saying, fine, that's how I'm going to build
something for myself. Isn't that what you do? Yes. And it’s basically what | would do what

any builder would do we say, yeah, | think it's good. You have insight, depending upon
