Craig Kamman_ 52:34

assuming they're accredited. Yeah, they may you may

Mauricio 52:37

capture non accredited like people don't, right. So it’s possible that you that wide net of advertising for your C
capture some non accredited, but whether they're accredited or not, if your neck Well, if you're looking for your next
deal is a C, then we don't worry about it. As long as they're accredited, that's a new, verify them, you're good. But
even if the next one’s a B, all you need to do is go through those steps and get them to a substantive relationship
prior to the commencement of the next deal. And even the non accredited will be will be eligible. Or even the
accredited will be eligible without having to verify them, they'll be able to take their word and check the box with
them.

Russ 53:10

And this goes into collapse timeframe. Well, but but don't collapse timeframes so much that you skip over key steps,
right? So when you get people on your list, you have to know who they are. So Mauricio, certainly point you have to
know where they came from. That's number one. Number two, you have to know who they are. And you have to get
into some type of a conversation or get them to somehow profile themselves and the key determination Are you
accredited or not accredited? Right. And you're going to assume if they represent themselves to be accredited, that
they're accredited from a marketing perspective, correct me if I'm wrong ratio, but once they come in, you have to
vet them to confirm that they're accredited and you need to reject them if they're not. However, if you do end up
when you cast that big accredited investor, reg, see advertising net. If you catch a bunch of guppies, you know, a
bunch of non accredited people have a plan to develop substantive relationships with them. And then just make sure
that you don't offer them a deal that existed at the time that you were first connected right spend time getting to
know them maybe have there's there's no litmus test, there’s no published guideline to my knowledge, Murray's to
correct me if I'm wrong. It says, okay, when when you know, this person, 90 days, it's a substantive relationship. |
mean, you know, you might know them for 90 days, and you've had two conversations versus you took a seven day
cruise with them. And you were with them every day for a week, right? What's more substantive? Right. So,

Mauricio 54:33

and on the platform, I'm pretty sure that on the platform, my ebook is down there somewhere. | don't know exactly
where but that’s got all the steps and it’s got that questionnaire that | would send that's the first thing | would send
these guys out is that questionnaire and it's part of that ebook that’s on the platform somewhere that you can take a
look at but that

Russ 54:49

but there's but the point is, as you're building your list, just building your list and blasting your list is not what this
business is all about. It's building your list. It’s it’s building a relationship. kinship and an understanding of your list,
segmenting it, and then developing a relationship development strategy for people who are in different categories

and maybe even down to, you know, when you get away or you're going to have an individualized development
documentation of their attendance at meetings and their payment of dues. And it was clear that by the time the
deal that they were in came about, we already knew them. And so that was B. But you know, and back then you
couldn't advertise to accredited that

Mauricio 26:04

it was just 506. It wasn't even B because it didn’t exist. They know the C hadn't even come out yet. Yeah. So

Russ 26:08

you know, | didn't remember what the letters were, | just knew that we never worried about any of that. But then after
2013, September 2013, when the SEC finally issued the regulations from the JOBS Act, it became Wow, this is great.
This has opened up a whole world of opportunity. And | think for that reason, reg c became extremely popular. And
notwithstanding the fact that it's been so much inflation in the stock market, there's all kinds of you know, accredited
investors out there, just because they were smart enough to buy some Facebook stock, you know, three or four or five
years ago, or whatever it is, has been inflated to the moon. But that's a different discussion. Okay, so that was a
super good question, Craig yet a second question. And since Jan is not here, and David cafcass not here, I'm gonna
let you ask your second question, although I'm not convinced we're gonna have the answer. But let's take a shot at it.

Craig Kamman 26:58

Can you refresh my memory on which one | was you were asking about

Russ 27:01

the Biden tax plan, and in particular, the 1031 tax deferred exchange being on the chopping block, we actually Mike
pine, the CPA, and | discussed that when we did the Ask the accountant, you know, mentor, one. And both of us right
now are have the feeling that this is and | don't remember what the proper term in negotiation is. But when you put
something out there that you are willing to have taken away in order to get what you really want. Hmm, right. So the
1031 has been put on the chopping block many, many, many times in the past, maybe this is the time that it actually
gets chopped. But sometimes it's just because they've got a bunch of other things they want to do in the tax code,
and they need to have something to give away at the bargaining table. So we're all watching it. But at the end of the
day, when you're raising money as a syndicator, | think you're you'll find that bringing 1031 money in any way, is
challenging. So we did the show with Paul more about Delaware statutory trusts. And we did a call, | think, you know,
a mentoring call on one of those also. But | think that in the real world, most indicators find that trying to bring 1031
money into their deals is just brain damage. So you're much better off going after stock market, other real estate
equity, you know, retirement plan money. And of course, you know, people have savings and one of the one of the
areas that Eric Shelley is finding a lot of successes. He's finding small business owners, dentists in particular that are
selling their practices and having a big liquidity event. And they've got capital in place. And he figured out how to
scratch their itch in terms of an offering. And of course, he knows how to speak their language, because he comes
out of that world is very well connected. And so he's just found a little gold vein that he’s just mining like crazy. And
that's working good for him too. So you know, as a real estate agent, you know, you you may be able to get into
relationships with Business Brokers, and you'll be able to find those Business Brokers and conversations and you can
even go further up the food chain, because a lot of small business owners will hire a consultant to actually consider,

you know, appraise their business before they even listed. Sometimes they'll use a business broker, sometimes they'll
action. | mean, they can do all kinds of stuff. So it's never been easier to just, as | said, blab into a microphone or into
something, get it recorded, and then send it off somewhere to get it transcribed or even summarized.

© Russ 50:29

Yep. Yeah, | mean, Microsoft Word, Outlook. | mean, however, you OneNote | mean, | I'm on a Microsoft platform are
sure Apple has at least as good if not way better tools. And those are the two major platforms. But the point is avail

yourself of the technology to get the debrief don't feel like you got to sit down and write a professional memo. It's
just an it’s just for your own benefit. Like kind of Captain's log. You know, what, what's going on in your deals. Okay,

so | think Craig, you had waved your hand before Scott is yours. Did you have a follow up? Question? Are you muted?
You might be muted. You don't look muted? You hear me now? Yeah, we can hear you know.

© Craig Kamman_ 51:12

Okay. So Scott's question was identical to mine. | just wanted to clarify a little bit. So if I'm in jarrods position, | have
a B going, | can switch that over to the C to kind of catapult the next project. Right. | can build

© Mauricio 51:27

my list quicker. Jared. Jared was different. Jared has a 506. b deal. Let's say it's a mobile home park deal. Yeah. And

now he wants to go do a completely different deal. A different asset class, multifamily, single, whatever it is. And
those are two completely separate offering.

@ Craig Kamman_ 51:43

No, no, | get it. | get it. So the first one, he switches over to a see he's able to advertise that one, which builds his list
to he's going to build his list quicker that way. Right.

to ) Mauricio 51:54

But again, he’s doing something if he’s not switching, he's literally doing two separate things. What | discussed
earlier,

© Craig Kamman_ 51:59

| think I'm asking the question the wrong way. Yeah. Sorry. I'm not trying to compare the two product. Yeah. So I'm
pretend the second project doesn't exist. Right. Okay. Gotcha. Okay. So just the first project he switches from the

news media. Okay, now with doing that he captured all these leads. Yes. So now if he starts another project,
whatever that project may be, he's, what he’s doing is he's leveraging his list a lot quicker.

© Russ 52:23

Yeah, well, yeah. Well, the other thing, too, is, is they're all they all came in as accredited, right? He should only be

adding people to the seaside that are accredited. And if they're accredited, you can bring them anything you want.
Russ 40:18

| mean, but it was between the JOBS Act and being able to advertise to accredited investors. And now being able to
flip a B to A C. | think that there’s plenty for syndicators to work with. Yeah, and we should all be very, very excited
about it. Okay. All right. That's good. | think | may have been the one that brought that article up and wanted you to
comment on it, because |, it came from a service that | subscribe to, so | recognize it as soon as | pulled it up. Okay,
so I'm gonna open it up to the group. Even though we have a couple of other pre submitted questions. Those folks
aren't here. So I'd rather give the people we're actually here on a call, a chance to ask any questions and ratio if you
have one. So if you've got one, you can either just, is that you waving your hand Jared? Yep. Okay. Yeah. So Jared,
fire away. Okay.

oo Jarrid Cavanaugh 41:07

Hey, Mauricio, how you doing? Oh, man, how you doing? Good. Good. So I'm still working through that mobile home
park with Carrie. And we're working that | just have a couple like, yes, no questions that | just want to make sure I'm
straight on this conditioning the market apply to 506 C's as well, no. Okay. Got it. And then if you have two general
partners on a 506 B. And so it This is my partner on those five mobile home parks that we're doing. He has some
guys that want to invest, and we're doing a B, a couple of them are accredited. A couple of them are not. They're all
sophisticated as pre existing relationships. | don't know him from Adam, can we still bring them in?

Mauricio 41:45

Yes, yeah, you get access to all assuming that this is a legitimate co sponsor, which sounds like it is like your partner,
you're, you're both doing the work. And you guys are partners, you know, you've got all those legal issues of your
really general partner, so you're exposed to his stuff. And you know, so that's, that's one thing to think about. But yes,
you now have access to his Rolodex, he now has access to Rolodex. So every single co sponsor does not have to
have a pre existing relationship, just somebody on the team has to have that pre existing subsequent relationship,
because again, think, remember, it's not about the pre existing relationship. It's about not advertising and generally
soliciting. So if, if one of your partners brings in somebody they know, you clearly did not advertise that person, they
have that relationship already.

@ Jarrid Cavanaugh 42:28

Okay, perfect. Thank you. And then my last question real quick. So there's a chance that I'll still be doing the race for
this be for the mobile home parks while | start another fund for a completely separate asset class. And | want to do
that one of the five or six, see, if | do that, can | advertise that completely separate asset classes, it's not mobile,
home parks, it's not related. And it would be a sea. Yeah, advertise,

Mauricio 42:55

yeah, you've just got to keep that proverbial Chinese wall right between them. So number one, every time you make
a post or a reference in a podcast, or however you're marketing, it, just make it very clear, this is this is for accredited
investors only. It's a 506. c deal. And what you don't want to do is take somebody in through the 506 c route, and
place them in the 506 B, that's going to get you into trouble. So if you get people fill that out, again, that's why it’s so
critical to have some kind of CRM and it doesn't have to be anything fancy, it can be an Excel spreadsheet, but you
need to know where every single one of your investors came from. And you need to document that. So that you can
say, hey, these 100 people came through that advertising, | need a Facebook page, a post or whatever, and | met

these people through that 506 C. So you can then segregate that list and not pitch those guys. Certainly, if you have
a concurrent one, that final six B deal, what you want to do is you want to bring in those people into your 506 C and
to the extent they don't invest, and you have that list of people that you captured, but didn’t invest, put them through
that, that that process to take them from the complete stranger to having that substantive relationship. And then
once you hit that substantive relationship, you can offer them the future deal, this current one, you're working on the
mobile home parks, they're never going to be eligible for that. But where you're going to get into trouble is if people if
you end up putting them into your 506 b deal, and then the deal goes south, and then they're interviewing them five
years from now say, hey, how did you meet Jared? Like, oh, | saw a post through this other deal. And | didn't really
like that deal. But he put me into this deal. That's where you're gonna get into trouble. Okay, better answers.

Q) Jarrid Cavanaugh 44:25
Thank you, sir.

@ Russ 44:27

And | think the big takeaway for everybody there is just making sure that you are really attentive to profiling your list
and list management and papering your files, right if, you know, it’s not just Hey, this person sent me an email put in

a copy of the email, you know, in PDF, it make it a make it a real copy, not just a, you know, like a, like a digital copy. |
mean, I'm not saying it would be hard copy, but you know what I'm saying, not just the email itself. Okay, so that was

super good. Anybody who's on the call Have a question from Russia while we've got him.

® Scott Florida 45:04

| got a follow up. Just wanted to figure out okay, so you move in from a B to A C, what does that mean? As far as like
your syndication deal? Do you have to repaper that then and does that

to ) Mauricio 45:16

the SEC was was very specific, it's actually, it’s actually stalking. It's like a specific example. What happened was,
with the comments, you know, they put out a proposed rule, and then people comment people like me, you guys, hey,
you know, | think this is a terrible idea, or this is a great idea, like everybody has their views, depending on you know,
what side of the thing they fell in. And so a commentator said, Hey, it would be really nice to have this guidance of
hates going from a B to A C, and very specific. And then this other comment was like, that's a horrible idea. That's
like getting around the rules. And for whatever reason, | don't know why Ross, but you said why | don’t know. But they
specifically addressed that comment. And they said, specifically on that comment, and we're going to give you some
guidance, and we're going to, if we do it this way, you're going to be good, and you can basically use the same now
you're gonna have to change it a little bit, right, because there's some stuff, | just know that, you know, when you're
doing an offering under 506, C, it's slightly different. There's some provisions in there that you're not going to see ina
506 b ppm or whatever. So | envision doing, | haven't quite, we haven't done one yet. | mean, literally, it's brand new.
So I'm envisioning probably an addendum to the P, or maybe it's cleaner just to kind of revise it and just kind of
sprinkle in the other provisions. But you can essentially, if this sec specifically said basically using basically the same
documents, it didn't say the exact same dog, but basically the same document, because it’s the same project, it’s the
same offering. So | will, | mean, | already know the things | would have to add to the ppm in order to do it as a final
succeed over the whole, you know, reasonable steps to verify and stuff like that i credits only. And | think what | want
to do is, is actually create two, | think the clean way to do it, and | have this is brand new, so | just this is my own stuff.
And it's time for me to kind of look around the internet to see what other other commentators are suggesting. But |
would recommend having two separate shares. So Class A one shares is your 506 b deal, then you stop issuing a one
in and buy these. And so fitting, right? Yeah, that's right, they get a construction loan. And they're coming in with
25%. down. And we, of course, are the builder. Now, if you've got decent FIFO right there their credit and small local
banks and credit unions are normally happy to do something like this, if you're coming in with 25, or possibly even
30% down, and you've got a builder. And so then it's a matter of, we get our plans, and what is this builder over here
going to charge me to build this and they're gonna have their | don't know, five to 10% markup, right? So unless you
are going to act as your own general here, you're going to need a builder anyways. But now you don't have to use
them to guarantee the loan, and you're not having to give away that piece of the deal. Okay. | think that's the way |
think about it is we reserve the lots, you know, you put your deposits down, you talk to some small local banks and or
credit unions, right, you get your vertical budget, you bring in the capital, they're gonna do a commercial loan. |
mean, people do that through us all the time all the time, like, so it's a matter of, it's going to be a commercial loan,
because you're going to have a whole bunch of houses, right? Yeah. | don’t see why we couldn't get somebody to do
that. Okay.

© Russ 12:50

All right. So that was awesome. And we got a little bit off the legal thing, want to circle back to that just to kind of
put a bow on it. But obviously, you have some work to do, Scott. And | think that's the, and again, this is the power of
the club, right? Didn't know, Steve was going to be here. But | happened to know what he does. | thought he might
have some insight. | think that was amazing. And clearly knows more about it than | do. And Mauricio. So | think that
| think this is this is where we're going with the club, the value of the club is just a lot of tribal knowledge and creating
forums where that tribal knowledge can be drawn out. So great job. Now, Mauricio, assuming that they get to the
point where they've carved out a deal, he’s carved out a deal if in fact, it even goes that direction, can you just hit the
high notes of the the process? You know, like, I'll just kind of give you mine and not to steal thunder. But just to let you
know what I’m thinking about, you can maybe go a little bit more detail. But typically, | try to work out the the deal
points and get it into something that is at least an email or, you know, even as formal as a memorandum of
understanding. So that it’s like, Okay, we've got a preliminary deal. Now let's take it to the attorney and have them
paper it. And then the attorney is going to need you to bring them certain pieces of information. So we see if
somebody was like trying to put this together, and they're coming to you for them to come to you and have it be
relatively ready to go. What do they have to have done? What do they need to bring you?

© Mauricio 14:18

Yeah, | mean, | wrote down mlu, even before you said it, so that's the first thing is kind of a letter of intent. It's an
MOU memorandum of understanding. It's nothing fancy, it’s a it’s a Word document. Don't worry about the legal
ease. It’s a bunch of bullet points, but basically, it's actually a working documents. So typically, you know, Scott, you
would start you know, you would talk to the builder, figure out what what you guys agreed on and take notes, put
that in a in a bullet point, again, don't get fancy, send that over to the builder say hey, this is my understanding is
that your understanding kind of | can fly and you go back and forth and edit it or whatever. So you wind up with sort
of the understanding in writing again, there's going to be big picture big bullet points, not going to be the nitty gritty,
you know, is it five calendar days or five? None of that, right. It's just like, here are the big things and then you can
take that to an attorney, if you brought it to me, | would, | would outsource that, too. If you really need a business
lawyer to put that document together, it will be some | don't even know what you would call the document, it’s going
to be some, you know, financial agreement or whatever, whatever that is, what | would be doing is making sure that
that structure, that arrangement you've, you've come up with doesn't violate any securities laws for whatever reason.
And from what I'm hearing, as long as there's no compensation, which we haven't even talked about, that there’s no
compensation that the builders not bringing any investors into your deal, you're not compensating that builder for
bringing in capital, you're literally they're lending out their balance sheet or they're, you know, doing the actual
building and an exchange that you want to pay them something a profit share or whatever, that's, that’s totally fine.
And so yeah, that's where you start with the mu. And then the nice thing about what | like to think about myself, too,
socket. Yeah, but you've got, you've got to transfer the line from the time that you reach out to, to me, for example, in
return, I'm ready to go with the syndication process. From that time to when it's time for you to start raising money. |
mean, that’s at least two three weeks, before, even if we went super fast. | mean, I'm pretty fast, but I'm not that fast.
So even if it took two weeks to get from the first call to hey, we've got all the documents done and we're ready to
you're ready to receive monies. That's plenty of time in that period. That's when we start creating those LLCs for the
project specifically. Now the the sponsor LLC, so the manager that that you can do ahead of time, which we have so
you've got that already set up. But the property LLC or the syndication LLC, is is set up between the time you start
the syndication process, and before you're ready to receive money that'll get done right there. Okay.

© Russ 19:53

Okay, so that was awesome and a big bite, but it was a big question. Hopefully everybody got a lot of value. Out of
that a lot of moving parts, but this is the real world, right? This is they're trying to figure out how to get from point A
to point B. And you all get stuck in different ways in different places. And as much as you know, the faculty, and the
mentors may try to figure that all out from memory. And you know, our personal experience is much better to deal
with in the real world. So thanks, Scott, for being out there actually doing the thing and bringing real questions to the
table. Love that. Hey, Craig, let's jump over to you because you've got a couple of different questions. Although one
we've got a couple questions in here that are really Tax Questions, but but but the first one, the FINRA versus the MN

vest. Why don't you ask that question? And let's see where we go from there.

@ Craig Kamman 20:41

Yeah, I'm trying to get an understanding. So if I'm doing a syndication in Minnesota, they have like, an mn invest,
which is like FINRA, except just for the state of Minnesota. Are you familiar with the States? specific funds that you
can do?

© Mauricio 20:58

Yeah, but | think you're getting a little bit off course. So if you're doing a traditional syndication, where you're raising
capital, in order to go buy a piece of property, which, which maybe, is that what you're doing? What I'm

© Craig Kamman 21:13

doing different directions at once, so | got to get some focus in my life. So

© Russ 21:19

maybe this is just interviewing Jay Pappas. And with who wrote the one thing yesterday, it's gonna be coming out in
a couple of weeks on the podcast, so make sure you listen to that. It was actually | got several good takeaways, | got
convicted because I'm the same way | got too many irons in the fire.

© Mauricio 21:35

Anyway, this this, | think this will be valuable. Russell, let me take three minutes, three to five minutes on this because
there's really three buckets that you potentially since you're going in different directions, let’s talk about all the
having the net worth or liquidity, they've got the experience that the lenders Yes, for Exactly. That's what I've seen.
I've seen like, you know, 10 to 15%. Having said that, though, to Ross's point, I've seen people do it for free. Why?
Because they want to get their name on the resume. That's what they want, what do you want, | want to be on the
deal so that | can have my, my resume on there. So when | go do my own deal, I've got the resume and | can qualify
for myself so that other people are just literally in the business of renting out their balance sheet, and they want to
get the most amount of money and they don't care about the resume. So going back to Ross's point, you've got to
ask the question, and understand what they want, so that you can then potentially meet their needs.

& Russ 09:06

Now, we are fortunate that we have a builder on the call. So Steve, do you have any comments that you think you
know, | mean, you're sitting in the position of a builder if a syndicator came to you and said, Hey, here's my situation.
I'm working to qualify for a loan, | need to have a certain level of experience, | don't have it. Like to make a deal with
you if you're willing to put you on the deal. presuming you're going to want some level of indemnification and some

level of compensation. Is it something you'd consider and if you would, what what would that look like knowing you
don't have any real building responsibility?

S Steve Olson 09:43

Well, it goes beyond the relationship of hiring a builder and to now you're assisting in guaranteeing a loan of course.
I'd have to think that through but | gotta say Scott, maybe you and | could talk offline at some point but I'm not

entirely convinced that you need do it that way. So you are you're buying the the properties? Is it from Jax? Or who
are you getting the houses from?

G) Scott Florida 10:11

Yeah, I’m working with. Shoot me. No, no, I'm Wagner.

® Steve Olson 10:21

Yeah. Okay. And so they they've got land they're selling. They traditionally build these out and then sell them?

) Scott Florida 10:30

No, they haven't. what they've been doing is have you pay cash up front, and then they build it out and rent it out for
you. And then you refi it out and then try it again. And that's leads to the second question, which is the other idea,
which was to raise what | would normally raise to do like 15 home deal, which would be about a million dollars or so
and put that money into a purchase of four homes and then refi that money out and go then try to do the deal.
Once | had those five, my personal one, and then those four that | build with that cash, then I'd have my five and
then go do the loan. Okay, and do a typical more traditional approach.

® Steve Olson 11:11

I'd be I'd be happy to chat in more detail with you. But | can tell you on my end we we do you know big masterplan

four Plex communities. And, you know, Bob, the doctor and Susie, the attorney, these are all the buyers, right? come
this on the last deal call, but | want to talk about it from a legal perspective. The two options seem to be to bring on
a builder and to compensate him for his part in it. Or in so my question there is what's fair look like? And then I've got
another two questions to follow up, you want to answer that first one first.

Russ 02:40

You're on mute? Yeah, so I'll take on the fair thing first, because fair is what you can negotiate. At the end of the day,
you know, so the best way when you don't know what the starting bid is, in a negotiation, is to ask the other person
what they would be what they would consider fair. And see if they will put something out there as a starting point.
And you ought to go in with your idea of kind of what you know, the the maximum that you would be willing to offer.
And if they give you a number that's just too big, and you feel like you can't do it, then you can say, well, you're
certainly willing to consider it. Let me | got to kind of dig into my numbers a little bit and check with my, my team,
my you know, my lawyer, my accountant. But if | can do it, | certainly want to do it. The question is whether or not |
can't, and that’s letting him know that he’s pushed you to your limit. And then And then from there, you know you
want to you if they give you something and you feel good about it, you just like make the deal. That's great, you
know, and then it's just you a matter of you clearly defining what that compensation looks like making sure that it’s
compliant, which is where Mauricio comes in making sure that the expectations of roles, responsibilities is clearly
documented. So you know, it's clear to you and everybody on your team what this person can and cannot do, should
and should not do for the deal. And then and then coming back to the marketing side, you're just gonna want to
make sure that you understand how to explain to your investors, who this person is and how best to present them as
the value they bring not just helping you qualify for something because that just makes you look like you're not
qualified. | think you want to look at all the other things they potentially bring to the table, which could be their
experience resume could be projects that they've been associated with that you can get some credit for. It could be it
could be other team people that they bring in or whatever professional background. So again, | always encourage
people we get, we get very narrow, and we focus on whatever our immediate problem is, you know, you go and you
try and get along and they say, Oh, you need this and then you go focus on that. But once you introduce any new
asset, which is kind of what this relationship is into a mix, | encourage everybody to take a step back and
contemplate the entire palette of features that this particular asset brings, and then contemplate the benefits that
you can attach to those features to your specific demographic so that it becomes relevant to them. Everything we

talked about in the sales training. Okay, so that's, that's my 28 cents. Mauricio. Yeah, |

Scott Florida 05:15
mean, the asset being the builder, right? Yeah, the

Russ 05:19

asset being the builder. Got it? Yeah. Because | mean, I'm not trying to dehumanizing him, I'm just saying, you know,
when you're bringing somebody on, and you're, you're using it to plug a hole. But yet, there's probably a whole
marketing story to go there. And you kind of have to have that in your mind early, so that they understand exactly
what's expected of them, and they know how you're going to position them. Because all of that probably is going to
have to get documented. If you don't have clarity. When you go to Mauricio, your documents aren't going to be clear,
there's clarity isn't going to come from the documents or documents are supposed to define what you're already

clear on. Okay, okay. All right. Good. |

Mauricio 06:02
use an independent consultant. So if you can, you know, get into a business relationship with somebody like that, you
got to figure out how to scratch their itch to get that relationship. But But those those are people who are going to
see that money coming, so | changed the subject a little bit. | couldn't help myself.

Craig Kamman 29:38

You actually created a follow up question, if | might, yeah. Okay. So you brought up so we have capital gains issue
right now the capital gains is retroactive. And it's | think they're proposed double retroactive. Okay, so now we have
people with big capital gains issues. | always think of 1031 exchange to defer those Murray's Are there other
alternatives to help people out in that situation? Here's an example. I've got a seller who's got several million coming
in, that's going to be subject to capital gains. What can he do about it? through one of

Mauricio 30:16

the tax, it's obviously a tax question. So I'm going to be a little bit careful here. But and | haven't talked to Mike about
it. But | know that other CPAs even today, push people away from 1030 ones, because they claim that with the bonus
depreciation benefits that’s going on right now. And the cost segregation, you can accomplish the same thing,
without going through the headache of doing the 1031.

Russ 30:41

| think Tom wheelwright actually covered that. So you might check out the video. It's also on YouTube, because we've
made it available to the public, but we forgot to rename it. So it didn't get very many views. But it’s a great video, but
it's on the platform. And it's Tom wheelwright kind of going through the Biden tax plan and what it means to
syndicators, and a lot of this stuff got covered there. So it is a tax question, not a legal question. So we're gonna punt
on that. But watch that video, and then dig into your particular situation. And the next time we bring Mike pine on,
you can ask that question there too, okay? All right. So, Mauricio, I'm not sure that we're going to get | want to give
you a chance, because you brought some some It looks like you brought something to the table you wanted to get
out. So let's do that. And then we can do what we can with these questions for the folks that aren't present. And of
course, we can open it up. Before | do that, I'll open it up to anybody that's here. But Mauricio, why don't you give us
your update? And this? Whatever it is that you know, | saw, | saw that an email I'm not quite sure. | see charges, right.
unregistered brokers, all that. So

Mauricio 31:49

there. Yeah, that was a link that was it. | don't know where they you know, | don't know where we're going to that. |
mean, that. That’s the SEC just nailed a couple of broke my breaking up a little bit or? No, you're good. Yeah. My
internet got a little unstable. So I'm not I'm the main one. So if it gets too crazy, I'll switch over but no, | mean, it it just
shows that the SEC has been cracking down on these unlicensed broker dealers that really was that that article, you
know, in that case, it's a little bit different cuz they were literally charging commissions. And that was not something
that we typically see. But but it is something to be aware of. And in | just this morning, | was spent an hour with
people. They're all trying to figure out how to how do | pay unlicensed brokers? And this is Craig, this is the FINRA,
part of FINRA broker dealer. How do | pay someone compensation for bringing in some equities and some capital
raising without them being licensed and and it's just very difficult and people are really, very grayish area at best are
bringing them in and people are going to start getting into trouble with that. And | thought maybe that was a good
example of one potential but but honestly, that one looked like literally a straight pay me 8% for me to refer
somebody over which, you know, that's not even close. That's a sort of a blatant but but same concept. They were all
they were all feeder funds. So there was a there was a main fund that was raising, | think, raised $170 million. But the
way they did that is they got these little feeders to come in. And those little feeders would bring investors into their
deal and in exchange for that would be getting compensated some commission, and then

Russ 33:19

to top it all off, they were running a Ponzi scheme. Yeah,

Mauricio 33:23

although, you know, it's interesting, you know, | mean, yeah, the Ponzi schemes are, they were, you know, | think | read
something that they were, they were, you know, buying lavish things with investor monies that | sometimes feel the
SEC flips out a lot. | mean, you know, if you're a legitimate investor, you're a legitimate sponsor, and you do well in a
deal and you end up buying a nice car, but | mean, you know, that's not necessarily a bad thing, right. But but they
always twisted as though they were using investor money to, to further and maybe that's true. | don't know if that's
true, but just because the SEC says that | don't | don't believe anymore. You know, Kenny just bought a brand new
car. Is he living lavishly from his investors? You know, but um, yeah, | think | think the one thing | do want to bring up
Ross and maybe this was even more because because | this is a brand new thing. And | think it'll be helpful for at
least to be aware of it guy Ross, | don't even think you're This is literally brand new. It's from March of last of this year,
but | was actually shocked when | saw it. But | did a deep dive into this. And the SEC is so just think of this and this is
for everyone. You are now allowed to do your syndication. Start with a 506 B. Right. So get your non accredited
investors you know, don't comply with 506 b to the tee right? So so no advertising, no generally solicitation, you can
take up to 35 non accredited as long as you're sophisticated, you know, play by the rules, and then midstream. You
can stop that syndication theoretically. So let's say you're raising $2 million, you raise a million dollars of your 2
million under a 506 b you can Stop, pivot and start doing a 506. c, in the same offering basically using the same docs
and finish up the rays complying fully with 506 B. So now, accredited investors only now you've got to take
reasonable steps to verify. Now you can advertise and generally solicit, and the SEC will not combine those into one,
it will not integrate those two. And | feel that was for a lot of people, not everyone, but for a lot of people, that helps
a ton because they want to advertise. But they also want to get their non accredited investors because they've got a
few non accredited investors in their database. And they really want to | mean, that's maybe their bread and butter,
but they also want to advertise. And so recently, obviously, that was, there was no chance of you doing that unless
you went with a reggae option, which was a whole registration process. But now with this new rule that got finalized
on March 15, the SEC specifically said that if you do that, you got to make a very clean cut. | mean, there's no way it’s
going to be and I've got some some thoughts on how to structure it. So you make it really clear that as of today, June
2, we're not we closed our 506 b offering. And now we're issuing 506 c shares, that you can almost have your cake
and eat it too, you can get non accredited investors in there pursuant to a 506 B and then you can pivot and finish it
up with a with advertising. Now, again, there’s some debate as to whether advertising that way really works that well,
because generally, people still want to invest with you, you know, if they know like, and trust you. So it’s still a process,
you know, even though you're advertising and you're on podcasts, and you're on social media, it still takes time, it’s
not like you just put out a post on Facebook and suddenly 100 grand shows in the door. But you know, you do have
the option then to start to start advertising your your offering that you started under a 506 B. So | thought that was

really interesting, because | do talk to a lot of people where that will be very helpful.

Russ 36:46

| think it's super exciting. And | think the other thing is, what about referrals. So let's say you know, you do the rugby
and you get a bunch of people in and you get your non accredited as in you have your friends and family and and

now they're starting to refer people to you, because | thought that | remember and correct me if I'm wrong, because |
June 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Legal and
Compliance...

@ Wed, 9/221:14PM @ 1:05:45

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, mauricio, deal, builder, accredited, syndication, question, sec, investors, talk, reg, llc, advertise, big, money, scott,

relationship, equity, buying, rules

SPEAKERS

Mauricio, Craig Kamman, Steve Olson, Scott Florida, Russ, Jarrid Cavanaugh

) Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ for a June now 2021 edition of Ask the mentors and we're covering legal
with our good friend and syndication attorney, Mauricio rockhold. Hey, Mauricio, how you doing?

 ) Mauricio 00:29

| am doing great. Thanks. Can you already well,

© Russ 00:33

you know, half the year just flew by and we're all getting ready to head off to the investor summit or a lot of us are,
which is going to be epic, where | was talking to Robert a little bit about some of the stuff we got going on. So we're
all a little freaked out trying to get ready to get there. But | think we're gonna have an epic summer. And so we
wanted to kind of dive into this. We have some pre submitted questions here. And I’m going to open up with Scott
Florida. Scott, you you wrote, like, you went in like two or three different doors trying to get this question in. And so it
looks like a big bite. Hopefully, Mauricio, you've had a chance to look at it. But Scott, I'm going to turn turn the floor
over to you and let you ask the counselor your question.

® Scott Florida 01:12

Okay, well, hey, I'm excited for you guys to first of all, enjoy the summit. Have a blast there. But also, thanks for taking
my questions here. So I'm continuing to work toward single family syndication, hopefully, in Florida, built relationships
there, the first house is under construction, that’s out our personal portfolio, we're planning to do a portfolio there, I'm
guessing around 15 Homes is the plan. So as | got into it, and start working it out some more, | originally thought that
| could just use the builder there and get the loan through the lender, because of the builders experience there. But

that doesn't seem to work that way, it looks like | need to have my own experience as a builder, or developer, or bring
on a builder as a nother general partner. So I'm looking at it from two perspectives. And | talked with Robert about
shares units, really. And then when you're doing your 506. c, it’s you're issuing a two share. So it's very clear which
shares are for which exemption. But yeah, | mean, |, it's probably cleaner to just revise the docs, but it's going to be
just sprinkling some additional provisions that there’s not going to be super, super different.

Russ 47:29

So | think the main point there for the syndicators is that it's not a complete rewrite, and it's probably not a complete

re expense, right?

Mauricio 47:42

I'm still working with Bethany on that it’s going to be we're debating whether it's just hourly, additional hourly work,
or if it’s just a flat fee of three, four or five grand or something, it's not going to be another, you know, 15, grand or
whatever, it's just going to be the addition, whatever the legitimate additional work of redoing the dogs and making
sure we're because we're gonna have to have resolutions, we're gonna have to say, hey, today is the day that we
officially stopped, and we just want to make sure it's done properly. So there's gonna be some additional work, but
by no means will it be a complete redo?

Russ 48:07

Yeah, and | think the point there going back to the list management, and everything else we've talked about is this is
a business that requires discipline, detailed documentation, always make sure that you're attentive to that part of the
business, we all like to burn and turn. And, you know, sometimes we don't take the time. But it’s probably a good idea
to maintain an internal log of everything you're doing on every deal, | just use the microphone and the dictate
function, and | talk, and it doesn't have to look pretty, it just has to be there. So that | can quickly scan it and be
cleaned up later. But it's it's again, what | call the What the hell was | thinking log, because especially when you start
really get going, you got many projects going in, in your, your operating things you have in your memory or whatever.
And then you can go through and say, Hey, | need to | need to research that or | need to link to a third party
document, | need to get an opinion on that. You know, so because if you're making a strategic investment decision,
whether it’s tax, whether it's legal, whether it’s anything in your due diligence, and you're relying upon something that
you heard or learned somewhere and you make the decision and you record the decision, but you don't record the
thought process behind the decision or the third party information that was part of the decision whether this person
is accredited or not accredited, how you met them. | mean, everything we're talking about the the more of that
documentation you have, and the more you are in the habit of maintaining it, the safer you're going to be and the
easier it's going to be eventually to delegate and still have an idea what's going on in your deals because you're
going to need help at some point right you you're not going to be like hands on on every single deal. You do big
companies. I've been listening to Ray Dalio, his principles, these companies get really really big. There's no way as
the principal you're going to know everything going on in every deal. You can't | i'm sure Dave Zook maybe he's at
the place where he knows still knows but you know, he Three $400 million, it's hard to keep track of everything you
got going on.

Mauricio 50:05

Anyway, and it's so much easier these days. | mean, there's a lot of software like, whatever, you're probably just using
this data, but there's some really good software that you just blab into it and they'll transcribe it pretty accurately. Or
you can always send it down to the Philippines for like five bucks an hour, they can put a summary of everything in
is | stay in my lane when I'm a securities attorney, right? I'm not a business lawyer, I'm not a divorce attorney or
anything, but | know them all right. So you would bring that to me, and | would look at it. And look, you really need a
business lawyer, here's | would identify the type of lawyer that you need. And then | will make an introduction to my
vast Rolodex of people that | know. And I'll try and figure out who's the best thing or maybe | give you two or three,
so you make the decision of who you want to go with. But but but I’m good enough to know what | don't know. And
that's something | mean, | could probably put something like that together. But that's not the highest, that’s not my
wheelhouse. That's not what | what I'm an expert in. And so | would just refer you to a visitor. But this first step is
going to be that mlu, put it together yourself shared with the builder, the builder, you guys go back and forth with
that working document. And when you guys are both in agreement, you don't even have to sign it like this is this is
not a legally binding document, just getting your thoughts making sure you're both on the same page, and then
deliver that to the lawyer. Okay, and Jared has got an Li template, which you know, that might be you know, Mo you
fly at, you know, either either method would work, | mean a letter, that's really what an M, it's a memorandum of
understanding versus a letter of intent. It’s just both getting what's in your brains, you know, and making sure that
when you articulated in writing that everybody Yeah, that's exactly what | was thinking to.

@) Scott Florida 17:05

Now, I'd love to see that. So So that's kind of your first step is to get that nailed down. Like At what point here? Are
you in the fundraising and you know, you open bank accounts, you got, you know, in creating the actual syndication?
Where does that fall?

ro ) Mauricio 17:22

The syndication LLC in this case would be the property LLC, that's the that's the LLC that you're actually going to
take title to the, to the land of the property, whatever, and also where the investors are going to come in. So you
would you would create that once you are in con, | don't know where | wasn't falling exactly where you are in the
process. But once you get into contract with the, with the seller of the property, unless you already own it, you
already own it. No, no. So at some point, you're going to enter into an LLC. And you're going to have a signed ILoY
with the buyer, and you're gonna start working on the purchase and sale agreement to purchase that land. Now we
know hey, it's a floater, I'm assuming it's in Florida, right? Because it’s Florida, investing in Florida, living in Michigan,
super confusing. You would create, we would create a Florida LLC at that point, because we know because who
knows, maybe you change it, you know, maybe at some point, you decide not to do something in Florida and you go
to South Carolina or something. So we don't want to create it prematurely is no reason to create entities beforehand.
So once you're an ally, and you know, for sure that purchase and sale, that's when we create that LLC, and you will
actually close on that land in the name of this new LLC, which will be in Florida, but there's no reason to get it, you
know, a bank account state, Florida actually does take a little bit longer than the rest of them, they do take about
five to six days, and there's no rush. But you know, five or six days in the bank accounts get opened up fairly easily. |
know you and I've had some some issues. But maybe it’s a trip to Disney World or something and you open a bank
account over there.

6) Scott Florida 18:49

Okay. All right. So that bank account though, needs to be opened before | start receiving money, like | can't just

receive money into my existing

© Mauricio 18:58
could be wrong is that when when you've got a live deal that's going and somebody refer someone to you? | mean,
depending on how they referred him to you. | mean, that can be construed as advertising. But if you were able to flip
it over to a See, you don't have to worry about that. Right?

Mauricio 37:19

Yeah, the referrals, you know, as long as it's a one on one referral, meaning if | introduce Craig to Scott, and I'm

gonna say, hey, Craig, | know you and | talked and you were, you've got 100 grand to put into somewhere and | know,
Scott, and he’s a good guy, and let me make an introduction. And then you guys take it from there, then as long as
I'm not getting compensated, that's going to be a totally fine way. You don't have to have that pre existing
relationship. But one of the important things to remember is that having a pre existing substantive relationship is just
one of the ways that you show that you did not advertise or generally solicit, right? It’s not the exclusive method.
There's nowhere in the rule that says you have to have a pre existing relationship. The rule says you don't you can't
advertise agenda, solicit one example, and again, 95% of the time, you do have a pre existing but an example of that
little five, three to four to 5%. Extra is a referral. So if you make a referral, and the key with the referral, as you
mentioned, you want to make sure you've documented evidence that that person reached out to you, and that you
did not reach out to them. So | have an email from the person, same ratio. | want you to meet Joey, | was had a cup
of coffee with him the other day, and | told him about you and connect. Or maybe Joey says, Hey, | got your email
from risio when | was having coffee with him, and he said, you had something I'm interested, can we hop on a call?
Something like that would work? What doesn't work is rough get me on your podcast. So | can you know, you can
refer me 100 people and | can you know, that kind of stuff. But if it's one on one warfare, referrals are a really good
way to do especially if they're already in the deal. Gotcha. to an existing deal.

Russ 38:49

Okay, well, to me, | mean, that's great news. It sounds like it's just getting easier to reach into the marketplace and
bring people into your deal. Not sure what the SEC is motivation, is there? Or maybe that was something that was
started under the last administration, that's gonna get rolled back. Do you have any input or feedback on the
changing of the guard? | know we've got a new sec, Commissioner in there.

Mauricio 39:12

Yeah, he just got sworn in, | think in April, not too, so less than two months ago. | know he's a little bit more of a
stickler for like, he's really he's been posted as sort of anti Wall Street, | guess, like he just wants to regulate a little bit
more on the regulatory side. But | think where you're going with this is that we had this great piece of proposed rule
last year where we were potentially gonna have the option of actually referring people and getting compensated for
that referral without having to have a license. That came out in October or November of last year. But what | you
know, usually it takes about six to nine months for those proposed rules to become final. So we're kind of due for that
in the next couple of months. But with the new Changing of the Guard, we just don't know, you know, it’s a new
administration, you know, so we don't know if they want to just table that because they don't agree with that. Or
maybe they say, Yeah, that’s a good idea. Let's get it into final I'm gonna start making some phone calls. | mean, the
only way you're gonna get to that is if you know someone who knows someone at the SEC, and they can have those
informal conversations to find out. Are they going to talk about it at their next meeting? Are they going to table it till
next year? Like what kind of get an idea? Because | don’t know anybody directly in the in the sec division that would
handle that. But that’s Yeah, well,
directions you potentially could go. So direction number one is the traditional, I'm going to create a syndication an
LLC to go buy a piece of property. That's what Scott's doing, raise money into an LLC. And then you go by you're
getting a contract, you take down a piece of property, right? That's the traditional syndication model. There is no
requirement, no FINRA no state No, no, nothing. Right, that's all reg D, you know, that's the securities laws, it's the
regulation d 506. b five, Oh, 16. That's what we need to comply with at that at that stage. So that's that direction
you're done. Now, if on the other hand, you decide, well, I'm going to create my own little fund, but instead of buying
real estate, I'm gonna go invest in Scott Florida's deal in in, in Florida, Scott, Scott, Florida's dealing Florida, then that
that creates an additional layer, because in addition to doing the regular 506 B or 506. c, you are now an investment
advisor, because now you're buying Scott's securities, his LLC units as opposed to buying real estate directly, right. So
when you go into that world, that's where potentially his FINRA rules will kick in and the state investment advisory
rules will come in because the general rule is that you are an investment advisor at that point, and you have to
register with your state of Minnesota will have a an investment advisory department. And you either have to register
with them to be a registered investment advisor, or they're going to have some kind of an exemption to registration
in Minnesota. Right. So typically, we would look at exams if you don't really want to register there. So we would look
at the exemption that every state has an exam, | don't know what it is in Minnesota, | can tell you pretty quickly
offline, if you want me to, but they may, they may limit you to accredited investors only. They may ask you to file

some form or whatever. But that’s another time when we might start looking at that. And then the third level is you're
like, Hey, | just want to be really a broker dealer. At that point, you'd like hey, I'm pretty good at raising capital. | want
to be able to just refer investors to Scott directly and say, Scott, here’s Mauricio. He's ready to put in 250 grand to
your deal, extend an exchange that | want an 8% Commission, right. And in order to do that, you've got to have a
FINRA license a broker dealer, license them to FINRA. But if you're not doing any of that stuff, if you're not if you're
not referring people for a commission, if you're not raising money for other people's deals, if you're just simply doing
a pretty straightforward syndication, where you're investing in real estate, you don’t need any of these other fancy
licenses to invest in real estate.

@ Craig Kamman 24:14

Okay, that that clarifies that a lot. | thought these guys all interwoven. But if I'm just doing a straight syndication, just
buying real estate, you know, renting it out 506 B 506. c, and | don't have to worry about all the other stuff. Hey,

© Mauricio 24:27

preempt state law. You remember if you listen to the presentation, | do that the reasons why everybody relies on 506
B 506. c, or sometimes even reggae is because they preempt state law, meaning if | satisfy the federal level, | don't
have to worry about any the state nonsense, which is why they're so popular. Okay.

© Russ 24:43

And we did an epic debate at one of the SMC meetups. It’s on the platform between SAP and low Hornbuckle about
reg B versus reg C. And | think | think | you know, | kind of think low guys Lo got robbed because | think he did a
really good job. But But anyway, either one is good, Brad some rock uses almost exclusively be. And he has a whole
marketing machine designed to bring people into his world where he can form substantive pre existing relationships,
have it all documented. And then he trains them so that they have a level of sophistication, he feels comfortable
doing that. If you go reg C, you don't have to worry about any of that. You just have to focus on accredited investors,
you can advertise to them all that kind of stuff. And ratio, if | speak out of schools slap me. But that’s basically the
difference. So when we were doing it, you know, we had a big mentoring program. And we had all kinds of pre

existing relationships well documented because people had signed their mentoring agreement, there was, you know,
get this a lot. Not not yours is very specific and unique question. But | get this a lot in the context of key principles,
KPls that they bring into to sign on the loan, like, well, what what is fair to give them for signing on the loan is at 5%
10% 15? And | always say, it depends on how badly do you need them? And how badly do they need you. So if you've
got a line of KPS or a line of builders out the door waiting to get into your deal, then you've got a big bargaining
position, and you know, you're probably going to be able to negotiate a good deal. If this is the only Kp you have.
And without this Kp, you can't do the deal, it is the only builder you have. And without this builder, you can't do the
deal, then you're gonna be giving up a lot more. So | don't know what your specific relationship with this builder is.
But it would be nice to have a couple of options that way, if this person says no, or says they really want the farm,
you can let them know, Hey, you know, I'm talking to two or three different people. And, you know, you know, start the
negotiation that way, gives you a little bit more leverage. But it does depend on how, you know, maybe he really
wants to be your builder, and then that's going to come into effect, or maybe he doesn't care. And so he’s willing to
walk. So it's a lot more of a sales, like not really a needle thing. But that’s something that comes up a lot in the Kp

discussions.

© Russ 07:11

Well, since you brought up the sales thing, let me just kind of go there. Because again, you just got | think you just
came through the training. And the key is, is that you just want to make sure that you ask the builder, what's a win for
him? Yeah, you know, | mean, if he's willing to do it, what's a win? Maybe he just wants the money. Maybe he wants
the procedure being associated with it. Maybe there's something he wants to learn somebody who wants to meet? |

mean, you just don't know what Oh,

&) Scott Florida 07:37

yes, give me a lot of range. What's like, what's a range of what you've seen?

© Russ 07:44

That would be a marischal question.

© Mauricio 07:45

| like | said, | haven't seen this was a unique, you know, bringing in a builder that you need the builder in order to, you
know, accomplish what your specific need of getting the loan, I've only done it with key principle issues. And | and
that also varies a lot. But that’s | would say usually a Kp is in that 15% range 10 to 15% of your cut. But that doesn't
translate cleanly into the builder, your builders bringing in a lot of additional things, in addition, just being there that
you can now qualify for the loan, | mean, they're gonna build your products.

© Scott Florida 08:17

Well, this is | won't need them to do the building, I'll just need them on the park for to get the loan. Okay, it is

© Mauricio 08:23

a key principle, then you really do need him to sign either because they've got the net worth is it looks like instead of
balance sheet, all of a sudden, it’s not home equity anymore. And so | think that there's a possibility that you can
take people who are on the bubble, that have some home equity, and you just got to move the money out of the
property. And we have, you know, high yield lenders, if Steve's one of them, that can where they can, they can use
arbitrage. So we're introducing a sophisticated mortgage strategist solution into our ecosystem. We're going to be
announcing that here very shortly, was a big part of what we did in the beginning. But the idea is that somebody is
maybe got three $400,000 in equity right now and there's a lot of equity out there right now. And you refinance it
let's say you pull $400,000 out of a property you put a couple 100 grand into, you know, cost you for four and a half
percent, you put it into high yield note paying 9%. Now, the The client has zero cash flow problem, we got money out
money in their cash flow neutral, but they got $200,000 free and clear. Well, that you know, all of that $400,000 now
was sitting outside of their home equity, which is could be considered part of their net worth for purposes of getting
them to accredited status. And then they got the $200,000, free and clear of any payment. And they could put it in
your syndication on their balance sheet is still shows up as equity, it’s just not home equity, it's equity in an
investment. So their net worth doesn't change. And their cash flow doesn't change, all you've done is re characterize
the equity on their balance sheet so that you can use it to get them to be accredited. And so they can use it to put it
in your deal. And they don't have a time fuse burning on the money because they've already handled the cash flow.
So I'm going to be putting together with Stephanie, who's going to be the the first mortgage strategists that we
introduce into the ecosystem training videos that are third party, and you guys will have people you can refer to that
can help execute those that are going to understand what you're doing and why you're doing it. Because a lot of
times you go find these residential one to four mortgage brokers and all they can think about is debt consolidation,
and you know, lower your rate. And, you know, in some cases, you can get people at home equity to refinance a
property at a higher rate, because they're going to make more money on the refi, than they're going to lose on letting
a 3% loan get replaced with a four, four and a half percent loan. So anyway, Mauricio, on paper, does that concept
of switching somebody to a credit does that does that pencil?

@) Jarrid Cavanaugh 1:01:37
| like it. | don't

© Mauricio 1:01:38

know, any reason why that wouldn't work. | mean, let me spend a little bit of time see if this has come up. But it
would have to be specifically somebody and then the SEC suddenly making a caveat that somehow if it’s within 90
days, or whatever, it's going to count as you know, some clawback. But | haven't seen anything like that. And, and the
rule just says it’s, you know, it’s, it's, it's a million dollars, excluding your primary residence, it doesn’t say anything
about anything else, right. So I'll take a little quick look at it. But | like | hadn't even thought of that. But | don't know
why that wouldn't work. Oh, we're gonna

© Russ 1:02:08

be putting that on mute, I'm going to be focusing my time on developing financial strategies that really focus on
unlocking the power of people's balance sheets, it was my stock and trade in the first iteration of our mentoring
program when | was running the mortgage company, and | just really haven't paid any attention to it, because we
really didn't have a mortgage outlet, and | couldn't be bothered. But now, now we've got one, and then we want to
develop it. And | think you'll find is we found back in the day, especially in today's environment, there are a lot of
compelling reasons to get equity, out of housing, and into other things that are more substantial, safer and distanced
from the properties. So now, Steve, | didn’t want to cut you off there. We're gonna close with you. Did you have a
second question?
@ Steve Olson 1:02:50

This one should be faster. And thanks, guys. And it sounds like yeah, I'll go with a C. Mauricio. And that's, that’s who |
want to kill. You're

om ) Mauricio 1:02:58

much safer, cleaner. All good.

&) Steve Olson 1:03:01

Yeah. And is as | get down the road, I'll consult with you as is necessary. I'm happy to happy to talk anytime you
want. | have a fair amount of investors overseas. Yeah, does that do anything to to this, you know, when somebody is
not a US citizen?

© Mauricio 1:03:15

Yeah, it makes your life easier. Typically, it’s it’s rare to do an offering with just overseas. So typically, you're doing
with both overseas. And so most of the time, there isn't any any benefit. But there's a there's an exemption, which is
the reg s and I've got a video on it on my YouTube channel, | think it is. It's like so | would definitely check that out.
But um, reg s the SEC doesn't care about Non Us persons. So if you've got an investor overseas, and they they're not
a citizen of the US and not a resident of the US, they don't the transaction doesn't happen to us, there’s no marketing
in the US, everything's outside then reg S will kick in and the only thing the SEC cares about is some end around they
don't want you to sell something overseas and then somehow that comes back and gets resold in the United States.
But from a practical standpoint, we we've already done all the docs for the reg the 506 B or C you might as well just
give those same disclosure documents then because you've still got to comply with the rules of the overseas we have
| have no idea what those are. So there's really no reason not to now if you said to me in resale | want to do an
offering exclusively with people offshore no us marketing no us sales no us no us no us then we could look into reg s
exclusively and maybe we don't have to do a ppm or maybe we can advertise over there and take non accredited
because we're not relying on reg D or 506 b five as sex we're relying on this reg s and at that point you just really
need to focus on the whatever the securities laws are in that country which may be non existent but you obviously
like Mexico you don't want to go down to Mexico start doing seminars in Mexico, you'll probably be violating the the
the advertising rules down in Mexico and in Canada's got it. But | always joked and Billy's and | were talking to
belizian attorneys and they're like securities laws like but what does that like, you know? Yeah. So but yeah, that's
great a reg S is that that’s where that comes in. It's a regulation SSN Sam, that'll cover you for offshore offerings.

© Russ 1:05:02

Got it. Thank you. Nice. Okay, everybody. We went a little bit over. appreciate your indulgence there. But | wanted to
make sure we covered all those topics we did miss out on. A couple questions that were submitted. One was a tax
question. And the other one will just roll forward to the next one from Jana, and hopefully next time she'll be here. It’s
better when people are on the call to get their questions answered. So, Mauricio, thank you so much for all your
great contribution, everybody. Thanks for being a part of it, and we'll see on the next one. Thank you.
strategy. And then and then you begin to execute and communicate to the list in different ways. And then you call
the list and get people who don't belong on the list off the list, so that you don't inadvertently send them something
that they shouldn't get. So this data management is an important part of your business. So don't, don't be so quick
to just, you know, hey, | want to build it and go out there and just blast everybody. And it's okay, because this is not
like that. This is this not like real estate. This SEC is a lot of a lot more worried about getting in trouble with the SEC
than | am the dare. Hey, we're gonna go a little bit over because |, you know, share a little bit before we turn the
record button on and Steve Olsen's got a couple quick questions for you Mercia.

@) Steve Olson 55:53

Yeah, Hey, Hey, Mark. How's it going, man? Good, man. Good. Russ kind of started dance for this. And | I'm sure you
have answered this 7000 times, possibly even just now and | missed it. So | apologize. | have a big list. And this is
people that have engaged to really boil it down to its most simple is they've looked at us as a real estate brokerage
or as a builder. Right. And so some of these people, we've had a bunch of conversations about representing on buy
and sell side. Some we actually have done that with others. They've just got a bunch of emails from us over the years,
| would imagine | have to treat those differently. I've got a, you know, an 80 unit complex I'm going to build in
Glendale Arizona. Do | have to really boil it down to the ones I've already done business with? And how | talk to
them? Or can | send a mass email out? Russ talked about the net and it catches different fish? And what do | do with
those? who haven't | set up another time with you to talk? Is this a 506? b? Or is this a B? But you tell me you tell me |
can whatever works best?

© Mauricio 57:01

Well, if it's the reason | asked you, it's an important question. Because if it's a five will succeed, and your nets, you
know, you have so many people on there that you're comfortable with, Hey, | just need a credit, if I'm only going to
accept accredited investors, then | would do a 506. c because | don't have to worry about any of this stuff, | can just
blast, at least from a security standpoint, | mean, maybe from a marketing and a sales, that’s that's a different
strategy. But from an SEC perspective, you can blast all 1000 2000 100,000, it doesn’t matter because you're doing a
five will succeed. If on the other hand, you're going to do a 506 b, then we want to make sure that you have some
kind of a relationship of pre existing substantive relationship with all those people. And that’s where you're gonna
have to get into the nuances segregating, and you haven't already done that, it's kind of hard to go back and do it.
And and some of those are going to be gray areas. And so maybe with those, you're gonna have to top them off and
say, hey, look, we really talked in a while, but can we please hop on a phone call, and we can do you know, the
questionnaire and a phone call at least maybe those two combined with the fact that I've known you for 10 years,
that's good enough, versus somebody else that you barely know, you just met him last week, that's probably gonna
require a little bit more in depth of a process. Because | always say, like, Look, if you know somebody from
kindergarten, you may not know their financials and all that stuff. But clearly, you have not advertised that. But
you've known that person before this deal. You didn't go advertise with Janice listed a person. But so it's all it's an
unfortunate, it’s all degrees, which is one of the this is where low, | thought made an excellent point in that epic
debate that we did, which is, it just makes your life much easier when you do see, because there's none of this gray
area, you can blast to your heart's content. And it's more talking to us about what's the best sales strategy and

marketing strategy and not having to worry too much about Am | in the gray zone with this? So let me

© Russ 58:43

let me jump in on this one real quick, because there is a technique, and | want to get your opinion. So this is a legal
question. But as we all know, a somebody cannot can consider their home equity as part of their net worth for the

purposes of becoming accredited. However, if you do a cash out, refinance, and pull the equity out and stick it on the
