going to do to ensure or reduce the likelihood that it could happen again? And is that whatever that solution is? Is it
worth it? Right? | mean, you look at our government, and again, you know, I'm going to expose a little bit of my
philosophy here. But you cannot legislate, no risk, no harm, no failure, no sickness, no problems, right? It's not
possible. | mean, if you want to be that safe, then lock yourself in a prison, and don't eat or drink anything but
sterilized food, right? | mean, you know, that you can have so much structure, the return on investment, the return on
effort is not there. But eventually, you know, you take that, that that strength, that rehab, where you kind of get the
you restructure, and you get the bones back where they need to be, if you will. And then the third one is strength and
conditioning. That's where you're building strength, and you're building muscle and you're learning how to have good
endurance and you're really learning how to execute at a high level. You can't do that based on a bad foundation.
You certainly can't do that when you're hemorrhaging. So whenever something is going wrong, which is the nature of
everyday life, then there’s a process you go through, which is to try to figure out okay, we got to go into triage, we've
got to stop the bleeding, we got to figure out exactly what went wrong and why we got to put a better system of
splint on it if you will figure out how to create a foundation that we can grow strong on and once we've got that
foundation in place. Now we have to train to that system and make sure that we have strong people and strong
process and strong infrastructure, whether it's software or equipment or whatever. It is our advisors, whatever it is we
need in order to be able to take that weakness that we once had and make it an absolute strength. And so again,
there's even a process for doing this, you just have to kind of recognize where you're at in the system. But it’s all
predicated on that concept of trust. Because when you when people learn to trust the system, you know, they, |
mean, look at the trust. And I'm going to switch analogies, right? But in NASCAR, you know, they come in for the
pitstop, and the whole team comes around, and off, go the wheels and didn't go the gas and the windshield wiper
gets cleaned, and everything happens. And it happens in you know, 10 seconds. And then that guy goes out there
and puts his pedal to the metal, and is pushing that machine to the limits of its structural capability 100% risking his
life believing that that team executed at a high level under intense pressure in a matter of seconds. Right? That that's
trust. And that guy doesn't get out of the car, say, Hey, did you tighten that lug bolt? You know, Hey, did you did you
make sure did you top off the gas because | don't want to run? | mean, you have to trust and that's the owner, the
driver, staying in his seat, doing his job trusting his team to do there. So if something goes wrong, obviously they're
going to have a meeting afterwards. But the time to do it isn't when you're in the middle of a race. Right? If that

makes sense. So, Stace, is that kind of making sense?

Staci Gray 36:25

Yeah, | actually just my last newsletter was about how to solve business issues. And I'll share my screen and share this
diagram, which is similar. Do you see it? Yep. So the foundation of it is really creating an issue solving culture. So a
culture where people feel like if there’s an issue, they're going to bring it to you, they're not going to hide it, they’re
not going to pretend like it didn’t happen happen. You have a culture where issues are allowed to be front and
center, and nobody's getting, you know, chewed out or yelled at or anything. We're human beings, we're doing our
best, and we're going to learn from it. And then clearly identifying what the core issue is a lot of times, what is the
some what is the symptom issue, like the thing that came out that you're like, Oh, no, this, this thing happened isn't
really the real issue. And there's a deeper issue. So instead of running around, solving symptom issues, or firing
people or hiring people, or any any of those things, like really get to the core issue of what it is, and then get all the
key players in a room together on a phone and discuss all the possible solutions. And the key players are all the
people that are going to represent all different perspectives on that issue. So tech, legal finance, marketing, sales
operations, so everyone's there, and we can make an agreement. And then once we decide on agreement, that is a
sacred agreement. So sales doesn't get to go off and do their own solution to it. And and you know, accounting
doesn't get a good off, go off and do their own, everybody is agreeing that this is our sacred agreement. And then
we go execute with accountability. So those metrics for success, and we can't exactly we have to execute long

enough to get traction. And then if another issue arises, we just go through this whole thing again, until you get
better and better and better until your issue is that thing is no longer an issue at all. It's it's in execution with
accountability, and you're, you're, you're going good, and then you're going to hit another ceiling, and you're going to
go through Okay, and now I'm growing and scaling, I'm bringing on more investors, | am doing more deals, | want to
°
O)

JO

JO

Okay. All right. Well, Jared is dropped off because he must have gotten to his destination. So john, anything out of
the last little segment there that you you want to comment on or have a question about?

52:54

I'm just curious if you want to get into it. You did a lot of talking about staying in your lane, and your experience and
having stepped away and then come back and what is your lane in the business? What is your lane that you're not
allowed to step out of?

Russ 53:14

As a syndicator? Or me personally, I'm talking

ore ri |

about in the realist estate guy's world what like what's your lane?

Russ 53:24

Um, well, | guess I'm still not understanding you mean me personally like Russ gray. What is my What is my lane or

what is the real estate guy's brand?

53:32

What is your your lane in the business? What? You get up every morning and write a call? | mean, but you don't do
the bookkeeping. What's your lane?

Russ 53:43

Yeah, yeah. Well, | mean, obviously content, we're a content company. So | do research on content, | create content. |
post produce content. So that's one part of it. Promotion filling the rooms. That's my lane. Like | have almost nothing
to do with event production. That's Roberts lane, right? We don't touch that Robert and cara, they execute the
events. They mother hand it it’s their baby, they love it. It's his sweet spot. Great, not mine. But you know, | write | do
almost all the writing | think in all these years, however many years Roberts written one blog post, and it was a
tribute to Jim Rohn so it's just you know, it’s fine it's not his thing even when we wrote the book we wrote the book
together but when it came to final edit that was on my plate because it was my my we agreed that that was my
thing. Right there's things like | don't post produce the podcast he does that he mother hands that right? So you
know, the understanding as you're as you're going through developing your your processes, your core processes, and
then breaking those down into the swim lanes. And then and then asking who is responsible in each one of those
functions for doing it? Those those are your lanes. So it isn't really | think a singular lane. Each process kind of has a
set of lanes. And you just have to know where you're at So Stacy, you probably can add more color to that, because
I'm the little kid that is constantly | jumped in the pool, and I'm bouncing off the lane lines all the time swimming
underneath them, you know. So | haven't established that high level of discipline yet, but the team is pretty good at
holding me accountable. So, Stace, why don't you chime in on that in the last three minutes here?
Staci Gray 55:17

Yeah, swim lanes are really just who's who's the owner of a specific task. And being when you're building and scaling
a business, especially where most everyone who's watching this is at, you're going to wear multiple hats. So you're
going to be in multiple lanes, if you're a big organization, and you have, you know, hundreds of employees and a big
team, maybe your lane is more narrow, and you only stay in one lane. But worst, we're talking about people who are
very entrepreneurial startup. You know, maybe they have one person, maybe they're trying to build towards five or 10
people aren't really building, you know, huge, robust infrastructures. These are small, small infrastructure. So a lot of
people wear multiple hats. So they could sit in multiple roles. until it gets to a place where that role is no longer
compatible with them. And they're don't, they're over capacity. And then we do something called delegate and
elevate, and we move them out of that swim lane and somebody else takes it on. So it's been enough iteration and
evolution, even within a lot of the content writing, there's parts of the content writing that rest doesn't do anymore,
that we have, we have writers or for our special reports library for some of some of our communication. So there's it's
a, it's an iteration, but largely rust is the visionary. Like if we just take think of two lanes, he's the visionary. And we're
OTS is operations. So he gets to stay in sales, creative brand building, strategic relationship, reputation management,
he gets to stay in that lane. And then anything that has to do with document filing, naming convention,

Russ 57:03

getting stuff done. | think of things to do, they think they they get it done. And then we debate about priorities so
that they make sure that I’m not over obligating our budget, their time, their capacity, or or, you know, focusing on
the good to the detriment of the great, right is making those priority decisions. Like if we can only accomplish three
major things this quarter, what are they? And | put six downs, like, okay, that's great. Those are six, if you had to take
one off, and only one, which one would it be and then you work it down until it's three. And then the temptation is |
really want to go do you know, number four, or five, and | wander off the reservation. And that's where, you know, |
get called back on track. So | have accountability, like what are you working on right now I'm working on? That's not
on the list, right? That's, that’s q2 that's not q1, dang, | know, but that my heart is taken. And you know, you have to
have a little bit and she understands, right, sometimes, you know, a person or an opportunity will come along and
say, Well, | wasn't planning on doing that till later. But | just met this wonderful person or discovered this great
resource. And if | don't grab it, now, if | don’t take advantage of it, and go back to the football analogy, you know,
sometimes teams are like, Hey, we really need a wide receiver. But you know, this person is still on the board, and
they're a really great running back, and we're gonna, we're going to recruit him, like, we don't have a spot for him, but
we're going to do it because they're just too good to pass up. Right? There’s gonna be times like that. So it isn't hard
and fast, but it's more of a truenorth. You know, when you're wandering through the wilderness, you're going to come
off truenorth from time to time, but your compass will put you back on track. That's what this does. When you have
your goals, your quarterly goals set and your your priorities defined. And then you have somebody who has the
authority to hold you accountable to it as a peer, where we can have debates about priorities are shifting priorities,
it's a conscious decision to change priorities, you don't just wander off, and all sudden change your organization's
priorities as the leader without telling anybody, and then they're all busy, you know, pulling in one direction, and
you've decided now | know we call the, we call it a, you know, a running play, but I'm gonna go ahead and throw a
pass. And I'm back, they're throwing a pass. And the lineman is, you know, 10 yards down the field, you know, if you
know, football, you can’t be down the field in a pass passing situation, but they were running the play that | called,
and | changed it at the line of scrimmage without telling anybody. So that's part of what the whole lane thing is
about. And the role between being the visionary who's prone to do that, versus, you know, the operations person
whose job it is, is to weigh the global impact on the entire team and all of the operations every time | get one of
those vacillations, so it's good to have them. My job is to be that resource. It’s constantly pulling and, and just
gunning to run. Their job is to is to channel that energy and that vision and that hunger, so that it doesn't just you
disperse, right like light. And it's just, it's out there. And yeah, everybody can see it. And it's interesting, but there's no
power a laser is is the same light, but because it's very focused, it has energy. And that's, that’s what these disciplines
and leaving it all, it's only tough if you don't have the tough conversations. So when there are those moments where
it could potentially go sideways, or there is something that maybe is a little bit off track, but it's not that much off
track to bring it up, it’s better just to have an open dialogue about it. Because you're setting the standard of Hey,
where you have open and honest communication, this is my expectation, because I'm bringing the money and my
investors money matter. And excellence is the standard, and you're putting them in check early, that this is how we're
going to run things versus waiting until it's a bigger explosion for that conversation to happen. Not saying that you'll
ever experienced any of this, maybe it’s gonna be smooth sailing, but from what I've seen, things can not not always
go as planned.

Russ 17:13

Yeah, every single provider that we bring into the real estate guys world gets fed it. And that vetting is we check their
public reputation. And we try to find out what other people are saying about them. And, and you know, some of the
things we've talked about in the past, but we also go through the culture conversation, and we specifically articulate
and if you were to go to the people that run our provider, team, Stephanie, and Silvana and you were to ask them,
What are our values, they know, they'll tell you exactly what they are and exactly what order in once a quarter, we do
a call and we discuss it with everybody and reiterate what those values are, and what our expectations of culture are,
so that we're all focused on it. And so even though they're third party to us, we don't really look at it that way. They're
all part of our ecosystem, they're all part of our family. It's just another brand and our circle of responsibility, the fact
that we don't own it doesn't matter, that you know, when you're putting your investor money into a deal, then you
have to understand that the the money that you're putting in, that those people who are handling that money
represent you. Even if they're not talking directly to the customer, you know what goes on in the sausage factory, the
customer is going to eat, and you have a responsibility if you're serving that food up to kind of have an idea what is
going on inside the sausage factory. So you'll find metaphors like I'm using now or analogies always mix the two up
to explain to people why you're asking the questions you're asking. But but one of the most important things | think
we do with the real estate guys is we make sure that our providers know they represent our brand. And our brand is
what makes the hay. In other words, when we go out in the marketplace on the strength of our brand, and our
network, we generate leads for our providers, if they damage our brand, they are shooting themselves in the foot and
everybody else on the team. And so no single provider relationship, no single deal is worth damaging our brand. And
if they understand that it's the power of our brand that generates the leads, not only should they work to not

damage our brand, but they actually should be working to enhance our brand. And we solicit their help in doing that.
Because if they understand if you want me to feed you leads, anything you can do to build our brand and the public
square is going to make me more powerful in generating leads for you. I'm part of your marketing department. When
when you're bringing money to an operator, you're part of their marketing department, you're bringing a piece of the
puzzle they don't have or you wouldn't be in the mix. So if you have that same conversation, you know, you're not
necessarily saying that they need to be out in the marketplace, promoting Although that would be great. But they
need to perform in such a way that you can point to what comes out of the sausage factory with pride, and you get
lots of happy customers who are out there. And then if something is going sideways to Stacey's point, the hard
conversations, | think, and you know, you can conduct your business however you want, but in my opinion, you want
to know about it early, you want to be the first to know, | don't want the customer calling and telling me that
something's going wrong, | want to know, | don't want the vendor, | don’t want the city, | don't want the police
showing up because the properties mismatch, | want to hear it from you the operator first, that’s my expectation.
Because Because you're you're that you're my thumb on the pulse. And so there's the culture conversation, there's the
communication standards, and what those touch points are going to be, don't just take them for granted, don't give
them a Hey, call me whenever something's up. | mean, if you're going to have touchpoints, and you know, this is a big
part of how Stacey runs her operational teams, there is a whole series of pre programmed regular meetings so that
people can leave you alone when you're busy doing other things and know for certain they have direct access to you
when they need you. And so there may be times that people that you're investing in are going to need access to you.
And if you're elusive, if your schedule is not, if they don’t know when that touch point is, you know, they may call you
18 times a week with 18 different updates, when they could give them to you all in one briefing that's pre
JO

you know, that's but but this is are you

24°23

saying this is this is the facade I'm seeing now

Russ 24:27

is what I'm saying is is that is that every play goes for a touchdown on the chalkboard. Sure, right. And when you get
out in the real world, there's the defense and and the elements and there's just stuff that happens that’s outside of
your control. So you know, you script everything you've ever watched anybody in martial arts do their do their cars or
do their pre scripted motion, everything is very smooth preset, but you watch him in a street fight and it's just the
motions are kind of in there, but there’s a lot of variations on the theme because you're just rapping Really adapting
to a lot of changing stuff in the environment. So, again, the muscle memory, the structure is part of what makes a
great fighter. But then when they get in the ring, it looks chaotic. But there's a lot of stuff going on that they're
drawing upon. So what we're giving you here is that very formatted structural thing. So that when you get out in the
real world, you're going to recognize a problem sooner, that you're going to be able to know where to go to get a real
world answer. You know, it's like Stacey isn't sitting here with some MBA in business management from some fancy
school, she grew up like | did in the school of hard knocks a real world solving real world business problems from 16
years old. And in a very dynamic, intense, multi brand environment with a lot of, you know, entrepreneurial spirit.
She's seen culture clashes, | mean, she's actually for her age for any age. | mean, she's, she’s seen a lot and done a
lot. And, you know, you hear it come out, and especially now that she’s actually working with many of the
syndication veteran club members and people outside the program. You know, she’s learning a lot. And that was the
promise of having that operational component from the very beginning, when we introduced the program, we
promised three things, we said that we would have a full time membership, you know, coordinator, somebody who
would be your concierge or somebody that would make sure you knew what was going on could answer question
somebody that was available to you. So we did that right away, Stacy was the original person in that seat, she
organized it, and then elevated somebody else to it, move on to something else. So she ate her own cooking in that
regard. And then the other thing we said we would have is a robust production of content, and video production. And
basically, we've got that, you know, so we're cranking out a lot of content on a regular basis. So that's good. And the
third thing that we promised that we said, we're gonna wait till we get to critical mass was that we would have
somebody who was out there from an operational perspective, getting into the weeds of how people were running
their businesses and pulling out best practices and bringing that intelligence back. And we were a little frustrated,
because we didn't have a way to do that. With the size of the membership we had yet we saw the glaring need. So
Stacy being the creative person, she is figured out a way to create that opportunity that made financial sense, and is
working for everybody. And so it's, I'm super excited about it, because it's making a tangible difference. You know, we
just did these two inner circle renewal calls. And both these guys are clients of Stacy's, and they just are saying they
just feel uncorked, like everything is happening, it's coming together, they feel so empowered. So the structure can
seem confining, slowing down to go faster, can seem like a waste of time, and especially for the people who have
strong entrepreneurial spirits. And, you know, we tend to swing the pendulum on the idea of better to get started,
then, you know, have paralysis of analysis. But when you're stewarding other people’s money, there is a degree of
preparation, | think that is appropriate. And then by having these monthly calls, and then having access to the
platform, | think that, you know, there's a lot of people to lean on between each other, and the mentors, to be able to
get answers to real world problems quickly. And every time you do that. That becomes part of the knowledge base.
So we talked about how the idea that when you have employees, they're out there learning, and they're building real
world knowledge as they're solving problems. But the problem is, when you're a small business operating in a silo,
you know, you got 18, different mentoring club members all busily working inside their business trying to solve the
very same problem. And so unless somebody is kind of over that, connecting the dots, and there’s a communication

structure where people can reach out and try to find somebody else has already faced or answered the problem. It's
like a handoff, it's a passing of a baton, if you will, in a relay race. And so | think that your you have to understand
whatever the process is not not in the weeds, but big picture like milestones. So you kind of know what success and
failure is. And then as, as your operator, you want to understand their process, like when | was in the office products
business, my job was to shift the conversation from the price of the product to the price of the process. And so in
order to do that | needed to understand their process, | needed to find out where their weaknesses in their process.
And then | needed to introduce efficiencies in their process and put a value on that so that | could show the price of
my product was competitive from a value perspective, even though on an item to item flat comparison, | was high.
But that's because | made the issue about the processes. So | learned a lot in that business. It wasn’t the syndication
business, but | learned a lot about going in and looking at third parties and their process. Now it wasn't my process
at my company. | didn't you know, | mean, | knew my processes, but it was | needed to get out of somebody else
what their processes were. So | would | would start the interview as | teach and how to win funds and influence
people. You know, | I'd say okay, from the time | hand you the money, what is what is the process? What is the flow all
the way till you give me in my investors money back with friends. And when you understand that process, and you
kind of map it out what they're going to be doing in big pieces, then you will be able to identify those key conversion
points as key checkpoints as places where you're going to want to report you're going to want to feedback, you're
going to want a metric, you're going to want some visibility into what they're doing to know that they're on pace, so
that you can see a problem coming quicker. So it’s not that much different than than flow charting your own internal
processes. But it starts with that all important interview on the front end of understanding, you know, their process
again, you know, strategic process, you don't have to get into the tactical weeds, unless you think you see something
strategically where there’s something down low that you might want to root up. So that so that you could pay
attention to it, if you think it's a, you know, a potential pitfall that they might fall into. But that's kind of become kind
of my nickel tour stage. You want to first of all, Jared, you have any questions about that? Did that? Did that make

sense?

Jarrid Cavanaugh 14:38

Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I'm gonna use a no, that makes total sense. Okay. Stacy

Russ 14:42
have anything you want to add to that?

Staci Gray 14:45

Yeah, | think, um, | agree 100% with all of that, and | think the biggest conversation to have on the front end is an
alignment of values. | see a lot of syndicators, who just want to find an operator and so they find somebody Who can
technically do it like they have the right skills, but they don't have the same values as you. And when you have a
misalignment of values, it when things go sideways navigating, it gets even more challenging. It's a clunky ride for
the investors and the investors are communicating at all with the operator. So making sure | don't know what your
values are with our clients, we have them documented. So when they actually vet their partners, they talk openly
about what their values are, and if there isn't alignment, or if there’s not, and then process mapping it, of course, and
then what we call a scorecard, which is your metrics for success saying, What what are the milestones? What are the
pivotal moments that are going to make or break the success of this relationship, and having that on a scorecard
sheet that you see once a week, because you're going to have a lot less visibility, a day to day visibility into an
outsourced operators operation, as opposed to an operation that you are internally controlling. And if you have any,
like control freak tendencies, it could create some friction, unless you guys agree in advance that this is these are the
metrics, and this is what the numbers we need to hit. And this is what it needs to look like, because it'll create just an

open dialogue. And then the last thing, and this is true, whether it's internal team or or an operator is managing it all
direction, they have personal crises, you know, things happen. And so when that happens, you know, it’s a matter of
trying to understand how to whose second team, you know, you go to a football game, it's a Super Bowl stakes are
high. Nobody goes in with like one quarterback, one running back, nobody's got a backup for every critical position.
And yet, we don't design our businesses that way. And so we need to, and so it starts with, first the concept that you
have to do that. Number two, a model that pays for everything, which you really have to back into because first you
have to figure out what do we need? Who do we need? Who do we need on the bus. And, you know, you may have
this ideal blueprint of every, you know, two people skilled playing every position, maybe depth, but any football team
will tell you, when they have to make that final cut, they have to come in under the salary cap. And they have to, they
can only go to the roster limit. And so you do have limitations, especially in the beginning. And so during that critical
time, those decisions about how do you get from being a one man or woman band to actually having an
organization that runs where people can back each other up, where things can happen, even if somebody vital falls
off. That really comes down to how organized you are, how well documented you are, how well cross trained you are.
And whether your business model facilitates the ability to be able to replace people typically the syndicator who
volunteers their time for free betting only on the come betting only on the back end, which is noble on its face, right.
And investors like | don't want to pay you to sit around until you deliver the goods. | totally get it right. Robert has
shared this from the front of the room. So it’s not talking about a school. But his first syndication company, he and
his buddy went out and did like 54 deals, all betting on the common they were just hemorrhaging cash, because they
had nothing on the front end to support all that infrastructure. And adding more only made it worse. And so a bad
model will implode on itself. As you grow a good model actually gets stronger So understanding that that basic
concept is the premise in business operations, then the next thing is kind of getting from here to there. And you know,
that's what Stacey and her team do. And so Stacey, anything you want to add to that? After you unmute yourself,

Staci Gray 05:20

| mean, we're we're going through this too, you know, so even when you have people who you think are going to be
around for a while, and then they maybe want to transition to something completely unrelated, how well
documented Are you really to make those transitions, and it doesn’t even have to do just with, | mean, yes, it's so
important for scaling, it's so important for predictability, it's so important for not having single point failure. But it’s
also important for Trent life transitions, you're dealing with human beings that go through different changes in their
lives. And if you build it all around one person that's going to be there forever, they may not be there forever. And so
creating that scalability within the team, and also having the infrastructure in place and the documentation in place
and the systems and processes and SOPs in place, so that the transitions can be as smooth as possible. Obviously,
anytime you lose in a player, there's going to be hiccups. Same with your analogy on the football field. second
stream doesn't always come in and crush it. Sometimes they do. Sometimes they don't. So there's going to be wins
and losses. But | think having a culture that can transition through that, and then having the infrastructure in place

to really support that is is very helpful,

Russ 06:36
right? Well, | think the important point is it's it is skill should be the difference maker, not knowledge, right?

intellectual property, it ultimately when you you build a team, you build a business, and you're in business, everybody
is getting up every day and solving problems. That's business, right. If you're not getting up every day facing
problems, you don't have a business, business is about going out and trying to find problems to solve taking
problems on and then creating problems in the attempts to solve those problems. There's just problems, problems,
problems, problems, that's the nature of the beast. So going through that iterative process of failing and learning as
you fail, what will happen is you develop intellectual property, you develop knowledge, you develop a systems and
procedures, and if those only reside in the minds of the people who solved the problem on the front line, and you as
the owner, don't have access aren't privy and haven't documented that information. Then when that person walks
out the door, not only do you lose their skill, you lose all of that knowledge. So part of your business has to have built
branch out and do this other revenue stream. And then you're going to go through this whole iteration again. So
getting really, really, really good at solving issues in a way that builds trust, can really create so much more
productivity and peace of mind at the same time.

Russ 38:52

That's the fundamental difference between being a deal doer and a business builder. And when you come into the
syndication space, you're converting from having been somebody that was doing deals, buying properties, or making
investments in your own account, to now becoming a business builder. And just like you learned how to underwrite a
property, and you learned what the process was for, you know, doing that, going through a transaction, arranging,
financing, doing the due diligence on the rent rolls, and the condition of the property and all the inspections, all of
those things that you do, you're doing the same thing in your business, just processes for doing that, too. It's just a
mind shift that you have to make going from being a sole operator, and a one man or woman band to actually
beginning to think like a team. And this is a team sport syndication is absolutely positively a team sport, and it's an
elite team sport. It's not it's not a haphazard team sport. | mean, yes, real estate investing is a team sport because
you have your lender, you have your lawyer, you have your title company of your property manager, but there's just a
lot of slop in it for most people. Because they're not, they're not out there on the racetrack playing high stakes
games, they make little mistakes that they can absorb on their own balance sheet from their own income. But when
you're when you're doing high stake deals and you make a mistake, you know, you know, something that cost you 5%
on a $200,000 deal is painful. But But you know, you make that same mistake on $100 million deal. It's it's
devastating. | mean, it puts you out of business, you can't plug that hole, you can't cover your mistakes, you can't
cover your sloppiness with your own finances, | see syndicators have tried to do that we've tried to do it. And the
problem is, then the expectation is, you know, that, that you're going to fix a problem every time and fixing the
problem by throwing money at it, it’s not a fix. That's, that’s kind of my point, right? throwing more bodies at it
putting more time in burning the candle on both ends, destroying your health, destroying your personal life, or
compromising your reputation, reputation, we've seen people that you know, end up starting out trying to solve a
business problem the wrong way. And next thing, you know, they're operating a Ponzi scheme, because that's the
only way they can keep the wheels on the bus. | think some of that’s happening in our financial system right now. So
we put a lot of emphasis on this part of the business because this is where a lot of people go bad. This is where good
people go bad. Good people go bad trying to do the right thing for their investors the wrong way. That's a great
quote right there, right? Good. People go bad trying to do the right thing for their investors the wrong way, you have
to identify to Stacey's point, that core problem, don't just stomp out, don't play whack a mole with all the symptoms
get to the root and uproot it. And that is going to be a team sport as well, right? It’s a big post mortem that you have
to do where all the stakeholders, all the participants, everybody who was affected by the problem is responsible for
resolving it or making sure it doesn't happen again, has to be at the table. Because the devil is in the details. And
nobody sees the whole picture, you got to do the 360. And and and you know, the expectation is that you think you
can keep your thumb on the pulse and be, you know, know, everything is going on, one of the things that | had to
learn to do, and | was forced to do when my wife was ill is that | couldn't pay attention. | had to pay attention to my
wife. So | had to trust the team to do their thing. And | had to trust AC to lead that team. And | just, you know, | did
what | had to do. | mean | | participated to the extent that | was required more as a product because of content
creation are a speaker at a seminar. But other than that, there was not a lot of me going on in the back end of it.
And because of that things actually went better was like, wow, this is pretty good. Maybe | can let go and stop being
you know, the, the the master of all things and master the universe. And | get reprimanded now that I'm kind of out
of that. And back in the game, Stacy reminds me, you know, Dad, you got to stay in your lane. Like, oh, yeah, | gotta
do that, right. And you have to have somebody on your team who's responsible for knowing what the lanes are. So
you're all accountable to your, your swim lane chart, if you will, to your roles and responsibilities, and then people
have to have the ability to put you back in your seat, then that's one of the areas where | can't pull rank, | can't go
well, you know, hey, I'm me, and therefore | can do what | want. It doesn’t work that way. Right? | mean, you know,
Tom Brady plays his part. Yeah, he’s the greatest quarterback that ever lived. | think you can make that argument
now. And I'm a huge Joe Montana fan. But | think | think Brady's made the case. And so he could throw his weight
around and insert himself wherever he wanted to. And because he's Tom Brady, he could get away with it. But if he
did it, he wouldn't be Tom Brady, because the team wouldn't be winning. And this goes back to just you have to play
your position, you have to play your position. And of course, that presupposes you've taken the time to define your
position, and then develop your skill at that position to a high level. And you can't do that by playing everybody
else's position. Right? If you've ever seen Tom Brady run, he's probably never going to be a wide receiver or running
back, it's just not going to happen. is not in his skill set. But Dang, that guy can can can call the right play, see the
whole field and put that ball where it needs to be better than almost anybody that ever lived consistently over a long
period of time. And that’s how you, you become the goat the greatest of all time. So hopefully, you aspire to do that
in your syndication business. And you know, you may or may not hit it. But if you're working forward every day,
anything you hit that is above where you're at, that's below that mark is going to be success, at least incremental
success towards additional success, because every day you're trying to do that same thing. So it’s not just how much
money you raise, not just how many deals you have or have done, or how big your investor list or how big your brand
is, but how are you executing at the tactical level where the rubber really meets the road? And that's where business
operations and all of the philosophies and disciplines and, and, and the processes underneath the processes all

come into play. And that's, you know what, what we're working to reveal to you in the sessions and since we've got a
little bit of time since we're working on this 888 part series, why don't you explain to everybody With that is because
you know, depending on when people see this, it'll it'll either it's already halfway complete. So the odds are probably
by the time you're seeing this, it'll be all the way complete. But it's going to be in the library, it’s going to be available
to you. So say sell that, tell them what that's all about.

Staci Gray 45:14

Yeah, so Russ and | are doing an eight part YouTube series. But we're going to put it in this and see platform as well,
about really how to organize your syndication business to scale based on all the things that we've been learning,
working with each of the individual syndicators and really executing with them. And the first one being getting clear
on your personal syndication philosophy. So knowing exactly your values, your purpose, what your syndication is
showing up to do for you personally, but also for your investors and the communities wherever your deals are. And
then really, when you're starting to build and scale your syndication business, there’s so many things to do. So the
second thing is prioritizing which actions you really need to focus on to scale and putting you that you know, in that
third video is putting you in your sweet spot, so putting you in your sweet spot, and then putting everybody on your
team in their sweet spot so that you can execute with everyone staying in their lane, and be able to make further
progress without one person trying to do everything. And then the four pillars to scale your syndication business,
which is raise capital do deals, manage processes and lead people. And a lot of times the syndicators are coming in
pretty good at doing deals or in like, in Gerald's case, already deciding that they're going to work with an operator.
And then they really need to build their brand. So a lot of times the syndicators will have this idea that, Oh, | know all
these people, and I'm going to be able to raise the capital with just one phone call. And they're quickly finding out
that it takes a little bit more nurturing. And then when they do start raising capital and doing deals, not having the
confidence that their infrastructure is in place to be able to fulfill on it, which then hold them back a little bit because
they don't want to, they don't want to disappoint their investors, or create a bad brand reputation. So definitely
getting your infrastructure, your processes in place, and then getting people on your team that you can count on
whether it’s advisors, or even operational team and then being able to execute that through them in a predictable
fashion. And then the fourth video is or sorry, the fifth video is what's missing in your syndication business. So kind of
filling the gap. So what are the pain points and what's working, what's not working, so you have those four things,
what's working, what's not working, and then identifying within yours, what isn’t working and then focusing on that
so they can | kind of all four of those can grow in, in parallel together. And then the 10 core processes for a
syndication business which we have gone over before in the syndication fast start training, which is in the platform,
so if anyone watching this can go look at it there, it was done in May of 2019, | believe. So we we preliminary go over
the 10 core processes there. And we'll do the same in this video. We have learned so much more over the last year
and a half. So that’s more fine tuned now with the core processes and the process maps and the swim lanes, then
we'll talk about getting the right people in the right seats, and how to really lead a team. And for me, | think the
March 24, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on
Business Operat...

@ Thu, 9/23 10:52PM @ 1:01:38

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, business, syndication, deals, problem, stacy, lane, build, operator, process, team, running, create, stacey, brand, execute,

structure, operations, person, investors

SPEAKERS

Russ, Jarrid Cavanaugh, Staci Gray

JO

Russ 00:16

Hey everybody, this is Russ and get syndication mentoring club, ask the mentors. This is the March edition of Ask the
mentors or operations. Ask the mentors operations for March. Yeah, there we go get ready for syndication secrets of
successful syndication seminar Also, I'm sure we all have our hair on fire. With that said, we don't have any pre
submitted questions so we can kind of wing it a little bit. Hopefully the folks on the call. JOHN and Jared, have
brought some good questions. If not, then Stacy and | can share some thoughts that we have just based on kind of
what's going on in the world right now. We don't have to use the full hour, but you have us for an hour. So we're here
for you. We did have a couple of other rsvps. And they haven't shown up in the waiting room yet. So we're going to
roll. So | guess guys, before, you know, we kind of hit with some opening comments. JOHN, did you come with any

particular question you wanted to get answered? Yeah,

01:18

I'm always just want to see what you wise people have to talk about.

Russ 01:24

Okay. All right. Well, we're supposed to be responding to questions. So we didn't come with any prepared remarks.
But we generally have all kinds of stuff we can riff on that | think is relevant just based on real world head to inner
circle. renewal calls today. And they both went really well. And in this particular case, both of these guys, | just raving
about the difference it makes having a disciplined, this, these are my words, not theirs. But this was the gist of what
they were saying. A disciplined structured methodology for actually organizing a business for growth. Because it's
one thing to be good in sales, or it's to be good at finding deals and vetting deals and putting deals together. And
those are great skills to have. I'm not even sure you have to have the deal skill to be a great syndicator. Because you
can invest in people who have great deal skills, | do think you have to have great sales skills, or at least good enough
skills to be able to recruit great salespeople. But the real, the real issue is being able to organize your business in such
a way that it’s designed to run without needing you. And really so it's designed to operate where it doesn't need any
one person, meaning because life happens to everybody, right? People get sick, they die, they change focus change
will create. So, Stace, | went hog a little bit there. Anything you wanted to add to that? No, | agree. | thought that was
great. Okay, so we're at the end, folks, we actually ended up with only no questions, and | think we came up with a
pretty good segment. So hopefully, everybody watching feels that way. But if you're watching and you have
questions about this content, you know, then bring them to the next session. If you're out there, pushing the
operational wheel, trying to get things done and running into roadblocks or you're active in business or have business
experience elsewhere. And you want to know how these principles apply to you and creating your syndication
business, bring those questions, you know, we can talk as you found out right about anything because we live in a
space. But with that said, it’s a lot more relevant when we're pivoting off of your real world questions. So take the
time and think about these sessions, create your real world questions, bring them to us. And and then we're happy to
riff on those and come up with with our ideas and, you know, maybe you can stump us and then we'll have a
problem to go solve, which is great, because that's the essence of what we do. Okay, so, folks, that’s it. Appreciate

you being here. We'll see you next in the next one. Thank you. Alright, bye.
JO

programmed twice a month, or whatever touchpoint you want. So Stacy says all the time, if it's not on the calendar,
it doesn't exist, don't think you're gonna have great communication with your operators, if it's not on your calendar.
And there's, so that's just another tactical tip, to make it working, if you if you acted like you were a manager, which
you are, and they're your subordinates, which they kind of are, they're your partners, but they're also your
subordinates, then you you wouldn't just have it be haphazard, you would have a structure to your communication, to
your to your metrics, and all of that. So, you know, a lot of entrepreneurs, | get it, you know, we're Mavericks, we're, we
were Lone Ranger's, we like to be the king or queen of our own, you know, castle and kingdom, we don't like being
constrained by structure. That's why we do what we do. But reality is there is a lot of safety and structure. | mean, we
live in houses for a reason. Yeah, it’s more free to live outside. But it’s a whole lot more comfortable to be inside of a
structure. Same is true in your business. If you create some some healthy, you know, enhancing refreshing structures,
then your business will work. And it's that structure that will ultimately allow the business to work without you, which
means that you can come and go as you please and be totally free, and yet live in a very structured environment.
And that's a whole different discussion. But if you can imagine living in a house where you don't have any household
help, and everything in the house has to be you got to mow the lawn, you got to unplug the toilet you got you got to
do everything, right. But if you have household help, now all of those things happen, but you don't have to do them.
And then you just do the part you like like living in it and enjoying your fireplace or your reading room or, you know,
your media room or your swimming pool or whatever it is that turns you on. Right. You have that same same thing

with your business, if that makes sense. Stacy, anything on that?

Staci Gray 23:32

Yeah, | agree.

Russ 23:34
Jared did that. Was that enough? More than you bargained for any anything else?

Jarrid Cavanaugh 23:40

No, that was good. I'm gonna have to listen to the replay. Cuz I'm driving. | want to take some notes, but right and
dry. But no, that was good.

Russ 23:48

That's why we recorded and thanks for not having your camera on. You know, looking up people's noses during zoom
calls is never any fun. So yeah, it's awkward. Yeah. Okay, so john, you're sitting there. Do you have anything you want
to chime in on that particular topic?

24:04

No, | mean, you you. You both said exactly what needed to be said. How do you add to perfection?

Russ 24:13

Yeah. Well, if you good, yeah, when you get out in the real world, you'll find out there's lots of gaps and crevices. So
biggest thing in leadership is protecting confidence protecting your own confidence as a leader and protecting your
team’s confidence because confident people take action. insecure people don't. And in order to build a business,
everyone has to be taking consistent action. And so protecting confidence to me is the most important thing with
leadership. And it could go hand it could be true for your internal team but also with your, your advisors, your
operators with anyone else. And then how to quickly do it. So how to collapse timeframe. So now we've gone through
all of these seven things that the pillars the processes, the people, and then how do you really execute quickly and
part of that is overcoming your personal resistance and aligning yourself with people that are going to hold you
accountable so that you will continue to execute when you have the roller coaster of building business, which is just
part of building a business.

© Russ 49:20

Yeah, we've done the first four videos as of this date, and they were fun. | think they came out really good. You know,
we'll see. We got four more to do Stacy's outline based on her real world experience which has been great fun for me
All | have to do is show up and, and host. So that's been good. One thing that Stacey mentioned and I'll share this is
something that some of you might find valuable. | mentioned Joe Montana earlier and she talked about protecting
confidence. Being an old old time, Bay Area resident and a football fan from way back. | remember watching Dwight
Clark catch the catch. You know seeing that on TV back in 79 879 | think it was whatever it was. And then they went
into the the their first Super Bowl, the 40 Niners for Super Bowl against the Cincinnati Bengals who were heavily
favored, heavily favored. And if you looked at the roster, you looked at the people, the players, the personnel, they
were outgunned. 40 Niners were outgunned by the Cincinnati Bengals at every position. And yet they had a 20 point
lead at halftime was highest lead in Super Bowl history at halftime up to that point. And it turned out to be a very
successful game. And they won their first Super Bowl, it was the starting of a dynasty. And of course, our confidence
built after that. But bill Walsh in 1989, wrote a book called building of a champion, and he co authored it with local
sports guy named Dickie Glen Dickey, | think was his name, who probably wrote it after interviewing bill. But it's a
great, great book about leadership. And one of the things he talked about was realizing he had an less than a
perfect specimen in terms of athletic ability, and Joe Montana, but a guy that had this amazing will to win, and eat
the right kind of ego ego that demanded wanting to win, but not an ego that wasn't coachable. And what what
Walsh did was basically adapted this West Coast offense to hide the fact that he didn't have a great running game.
And so he needed to move the ball in small increments. And it accomplished a couple things, it hid the fact that he
didn't have a great running game. And it allowed Montana to get the ball out of his hand quickly, so that he was
able to move the ball down the field and these little Dink off passes. And by the time he threw a long ball, he might
have already completed 678 out of nine or 10 passes, he had this tremendous psychological advantage because he
was just clicking. And and Walsh was very aware of how important it was to script the game plan, not to do anything
other than to test the defense, and to build the confidence in his player so that they played the rest of the game,
from a place of confidence, gave them wins. And so Stacey mentioned that | have always found that book to be very
enlightening. If you can find a copy of it. | don't know that it’s still in print. But | have this bookstore that | use thrift
books.com that has pretty much every book you'd ever want to find. If you're looking for an alternative to Amazon,
which | am, that's a side discussion. Anyway. So hopefully that's useful to somebody out there. But yeah, definitely
building the confidence. So Stacey, | know you had some other points before | kind of went off on the whole trust

issue, but | think that was a good a good rabbit trail.

@) Staci Gray 52:40

| don't think | have any more. | think we covered a lot.

© Russ 52:44
just a longer slog, you have to push the boulder a lot longer up the hill before you find the answer when you're
pushing by yourself, but the power of the tribe and the platform and the mechanisms that we've created, | think,
clean that up quite a bit. And you know, obviously, it just gets better every day. And we're glad about that. And we're
going to continue working to get a whole bunch of new people coming in this weekend. We hope many of them
convert into club members. And that'll be a lot more knowledge and information and curious minds and questions
and more problems to solve, which will make us all wiser. So we're looking forward to that. So Stacy, anything you we
kind of went off a little bit you were going down a path and Jared had a question and we kind of wandered around a
little bit. But did you have something else on your on your mind? You wanted

Staci Gray 29:34

to share? A few things. Okay, you have time. Going back to Jared thing. | just want to encourage you that it's
iterative. So you're gonna learn a lot as you're going through this process of vetting the operators and you're going to
find the ones that you're like, Oh, | really liked that that worked and some they like it and didn't work so much in it
like that. capture all of that IP. So then you can eventually have your, you know, vetting partnership, you diligence
checklist, and you have something that you can reference when you go. So don't feel like you have to have that
whole checklist to even get started, it's just going to be an evolution and you're going to build on it. But since you're
going to get all the lessons, just make sure you capture it. Then secondly, um, | think this is kind of going still on the
same line, but sweet spot. And | know Russ talks a lot about your sweet spot, but that's also staying in your lane a
little bit. So when we work with the syndicators, there’s some syndicators that really want to be the visionary
salesperson capital raiser brand ambassador, content creator, but then they hide by dabbling in execution or
operations or behind the scenes stuff. So being very self aware of knowing what is going to be your role and your
sweet spot and who you are going to be partnering with, whether it’s something like OTS, where it's operations help,
or operators who are doing the deals, or you're bringing somebody in house to handle that execution, or if you are,
and then somebody else is going to be the sales visionary person, that's fine. But very, it’s very helpful to be very
clear on what those roles are. So that there can trust can be built, execution can go and people aren't stepping on
each other's toes are pointing fingers at each other. So | think that could that clarity could also help you in
developing really strong cap, you know, fundraiser, operator relationship dynamics.

Russ 31:34

Yeah, well, let me jump in on that real quick. And I'm gonna bring bring back the sports analogy, because | think it's
an important one. You watch small teams, young teams, you know, if you watch a bunch of kids get together and
play soccer, | call it Attack of the killer bees, everybody is all just running around huddled around the ball. And it's
this big Scrum of little bodies that are just moving around in a cluster. That's very, very amateur. When you get to the
pro level, everybody is spread out across the field, they have defined positions to find responsibilities, specific
strategies, and tactics are each responsible for executing and CC said a key word there that | don't want to let go by,
because it's a really, really important word. And it’s trust. Because the only way that you stay in your lane, the only
way you play your position is you have to trust that your teammate is going to play their position, and you can't play
their position for them. And when you're the owner of the company, you feel it’s your defying right to be able to insert
yourself into anybody in any position. And the problem is that's disruptive. But worse than that, it destroys the morale
of the people who you should be trusting. Now there should be a process for reviewing and measuring something.
And you know, like, we had a call this morning, you know, we had one problem we had with a problem yesterday,
then we had another problem. And then Stacy sent me an email and she goes, she goes, can you talk? We've got
another issue. | was like, Okay, well, so you know. And so sometimes things are urgent. And that's when you go into
triage, right? We got to stop the bleeding, we got to figure out what the problem is. It's all hands on deck. It’s an ER
room, right? Now we got the thing stabilized. And it's no longer business threatening life threatening whatever it is.
And now we're going to go to the next level, which is his rehab, which means that we've got to diagnose you know,
what happened and why it happened all the way down to the granular level, we got to figure out how what are we
into it a methodology for capturing that intelligence that people have developed in the real world solving real
problems, and then turning it into systems and procedures so that the only differentiation in performance is skill. So
yes, when when the second string quarterback steps on the field, he knows the playbook. He should know the
playbook. There's no excuse for the second team person not knowing the playbook. Unless the coach didn’t bother
to create one. That's a problem. And then the other thing is, did the player take the time to learn it? Was he ever
given any reps in practice? Did he ever have an opportunity to develop his skills under pressure in the real world? And
so as you're thinking about building your business, | think it's important to contemplate these things. So that you are
so that you're you're developing the skills alongside the the the intellectual property, the knowledge, and so, you
know, again, there's a lot of things that you kind of learn by doing. And you know, until you've experienced having a
skilled person walk out the door, and you think, Oh, | lost the skill, | need to hire somebody who's good at that. And
then you hire somebody who's really good and skilled, but they don't know your playbook. They don't know your
plays. They don't know the teammates, they don't gel | mean, you know, if you use the sports analogy, and you pay
attention to sports, and | don’t do that as much as | used to, in fact, | don't do it at all now except for my nephew. But
| spent a lot of time studying sports early in my life. And the analogy really fits perfectly. And so if you can just think
about building your business kind of the way a football coach does, you know you've got you've got your preseason,
or you don't even have you have your your your offseason where you're kind of getting everything organized,
organizing your staff, figuring out your philosophy, blah, blah, blah. Then you have your camp or you you're recruiting
people, you have your draft where you're recruiting talent and sorting it out. Then you have your camp, where you're
testing the talent, putting people in real life situations, seeing how they perform where they chemistries are. Then you
have your preseason where you're out there in the real world, but the stakes are low. And then you have your regular
season where you're kind of just running your game and fine tuning things. But your your your goals are all on the
back end of that season, where you're going to end Enter into the playoffs where the stakes are very, very high one
and done. And as you go through your syndication business, if you can imagine, you know, being in the middle of a
multi million or 100 million or a billion dollar deal stakes are very, very high. Well, you don't want to be doing that
your first time out, right? You don’t want to be in the Superbowl, the first game of the season, you build up to that.
But But the challenge is, if you're not capturing what you've learned on that path, then every day is the first game of
the season. And you never ever get to that elite level. And that's a difference, | think, between people that operate at
an elite level versus the people who just continue to repeat. You know, Robert says all the time, there's a difference
between 20 years of experience and 20, or one year of experience, repeated 20 times. Nobody wants it. Groundhog
Day business. Yeah, exactly. So | think that part's important. So | know you guide people through that process. So
since since we don't have questions, and john feel free, and Jared, if you're still with us, you know, feel free to chime in
and have a question, but you know, we're just gonna have one. Oh, okay, great.

@ Jarrid Cavanaugh 11:03

| do have one. So um, so Ross, your priority tracking this, but Stacy just try to catch you up. So I’m kind of taking a
little bit more of the David's look model where I'm trying to find really good operators, and bring the capital
alongside the operators versus going out and doing the entire entire thing myself. And so what I'm trying to think
through is I've been vetting two to three guys, and it’s getting, it's getting to the stage where we're about ready to
probably do something small, together, but what, what areas do, | need to build out systems to where, throughout
the lifecycle of the deal, | can have checks and balances on these guys, right. And that’s what I'm kind of unsure
about, because I've just never done it.

@ Russ 11:46

So I'll give you you know, maybe a little bit of a high level, and then maybe Stacey can take it into the weeds or
correct me. But everything is a process. | think Stacy and | did a video on that. So everything is a process. And even
working with them as a process. And so in processes there's there’s what we call choke points. And choke points are
conversion points where something is going to happen, something needs to happen. And it's a critical conversion. It’s
