And so you had PPP loans. You had bailout, you had helicopter money. You had eviction moratoriums. Yeah, they're
gonna bleed out the landlords a little bit, you know, let their balance sheet buffer some of this but at some point the
landlords can only take so much and if that debt goes back, going back full circle to what we talked about with
Jared, then. Then Then the financial market implodes. So at the end of the day, they have no choice but to print
money and give it to people so that it can flow through the real estate to service the debt. That's it, you know, unless
they go full blown communism and or, or, you know, real estate socialism where they just foreclose on everybody in
the government owns everything because the government printed a bunch of money out of thin air, got everybody
into debt, crashed the economy foreclosed And now they own everything. Maybe that’s a game. You know, | mean, |
tend to wear a tinfoil hat more often than | don't wouldn't surprise me. But | just feel like | feel like if we're going to
maintain at least foe prosperity, we're going to maintain full freedom to own property. And that's good enough,
right? | mean, that's good enough, if they give us fake currency, and they give us fake rights to own property, there's
probably enough freedom still in there for us to be able to build wealth, which is better than not building wealth. |
mean, if | had my druthers, we would have sound money, we wouldn't have these stupid taxes, we wouldn't have
wasteful government spending means. | mean, you know, but | don't nobody is nobody's calling up Russ gray going,
Hey, Russ, how how should the world be organized? Right? nobody's asking me that. So it doesn't matter what |
prefer, what matters is what's really happening. And, you know, we're moving in a direction. You know, personally, I'm
not happy about it. But But along the way, there's, it’s still better to have abundance, it's still better to have wealth,
it's still better to use what we have left available to us to create as much insulation as we as we can. So cept coming
back full circle to your question. | think that we are not in a strong position, as we were in the 70s. We are not a
manufacturing economy, we do not have a strong balance sheet. It is easy to bleed out the worker and cut labor
costs by exploiting cheap labor markets. That was a big part of Nixon's response to, to the dollar failing. And Nixon
didn't kill the dollar that happened. He inherited that he just, you know, did what he did, right? I'm not saying I'm a
fan, but I'm just saying he did did what he had to do. Right, we were bleeding out all our gold. And even though, you
know, everybody wanted to believe gold isn't money, it is money, it's still money. Today, central banks act like it's
money, they still guard it, they still ship it, they still vie for it, they still pay very close attention to it, even though they
try to pretend that they don't. But at the end of the day, if people do not have roof over their head, it is a rebellion.
And right now, that is still a very scary thought, | think to the powers that be because last time | looked we we sold
another round of record guns, right? We are an armed society. So we don't take up pitchforks. And, and, you know,
torches and storm things. | mean, you know, we, we take up rifles, and you know, now I'm not saying that, that's what
we're gonna do. I'm not saying that’s what we should do. But we got big walls all around Washington, DC, you can
see they're clearly concerned about it. So, you know, and, you know, you're you're seeing anti gun legislation. And
what did we get? We just had a mass shooting shocker. Right? Did anybody not see that one coming a mile away?
Right. So there's all the clues that are saying that they're concerned about the people. But the focal point isn't on
gun policy, whether you believe in what they're doing or not? Or, or how they feel about it, other than other than will?
Will they find a way to make sure that people on the low end of the food chain that represent the masses have a

way to pay their rent to have a roof over their head? My answer is yes. And as long as there’s a spot in their system
for private landlords, and that in debt is involved, and debt is because they need debt and they want debt against
Real Estate is one of their favorite forms of debt, then | think that there's going to be enough for us to be able to
work with where we're going to be able to create profits. Now, | do think, you know, they can't control everything
people are going to move. And that's where you have to understand one market versus another market. And we've
talked about that forever, believing that affordable markets are more likely to have more likely to have appeal. So
you know, as long as you're in affordable markets, affordable niches, affordable price points within that market. And
that market has good healthy dynamics relative to other markets. | mean, everything might be weak, but there's
always going to be winners and losers, because it is definitely about location and local market drivers. And if you
have those down, you have a better than average chance of, of having success. And | do think that the probability
that there will continue to be subsidized subsidies to the to affordable housing, to people who live in affordable
housing, | think that's probably likely to continue, and you just have to watch to see | mean, that's my thesis. Now you
just have to watch the news. You have to watch the policy. You have to watch the stuff that's coming out and see
What's happening support my thesis or refute it? | could be wrong. And if I'm wrong, you have to adjust. Right. But |
watched the news diligently and | form my opinions based on what | see happening based on basic, broader

concepts or principles. And then I'd look and see, you know, is the dollar 100 year downward trend likely to continue?
saying, this is all made up. So what's the point? Why are we teaching you to do this? If it's all nonsense, in the end, we
don't know what's going to happen in 10 years. And | told them and this was the answer. It’s just so you go through
the thought process. That's the point of it so that you think through all of the angles and make the best decision
possibly can no That, when you get to 10 years, it's probably not gonna look much like what you thought? Well, |
think

Russ 55:07

the important point of it and this ties back into, you know, our theme or topic at hand is that when you do a pro
forma, you are organizing a bunch of inputs. And those inputs are largely going to be based on assumptions. But one
of the things that you're going to be doing is basing those assumptions in reality, which means that you've done
some homework, you've researched some third party sources, you know, from wherever they are, whether it's an
expert or a government agency, whether they're statistics or professional opinion, whatever it is, you have come to,
you've identified these key inputs, number one, number two, you've identified sources to help you monitor those key
inputs. And that way, now, when you begin to progress and actually operating your deal, or implementing your
investment thesis, you know, what to pay attention to, and who to listen to, so that you can begin to see if the
assumptions which are part of your thesis, their kind of sub theses inside your overall thesis are trending to be true or
not. And the sooner you see deviations from plan, the quicker you're going to be able to respond or compensate. If
you do your whole pro forma based on lumber being a certain price, and then you see a new you go, this is a really,
really important input. And you say what drives the price of lumber, and you realize it's the strength of the currency,
and it's the cost of energy. And it is green policy, let's say, and I'm just making this up. Those are three, three drivers
have a key input, and you say, Okay, I'm going to watch those three things so that | will see fluctuations in my key
input happening before it hits me, I'll see it coming. And you might even go second layer back well, what affects
energy price, what affects, right and you can go back and the further up the the the what | call the mouse trap, you
know, the the cause and effect food chain, you can go the further up you can go, the sooner you can see something
coming, the more time you have to take action. And in any trade, whatever you're doing in any business, whatever
you're doing. The key is not to be behind the crowd, or behind the curve, but ahead of it. And if you wait until
everybody knows, and everybody agrees you've missed it. If you head to the exit when everybody else does, you're
late. But the only way to be ahead is you got to trust your research, you have to trust your judgment. You have to you
have to trust your thesis. Well, how do you do that you gain experience over time, creating hypotheses like the steps
been around since we are doing clues in the news back in 2012. And | would | would posit things that were based on
my interpretation of the news, | was very young and you know, doing what | do now in terms of analyzing the news
and the economic impact. And | would say okay, well, based on my understanding, | think that this piece of news is
going to lead to this. And over time, | found out that | was right more often than | was wrong. | found that when | got
into conversations with really smart people like Peter and Mark skousen that | had contributions from Richard
Duncan, | had contributions to make to the conversation. And and my confidence grew. And so then | started putting
out newsletters that forced me to do the research when | which | think is a really good activity for you. If you're not
doing it from a marketing perspective, but you're doing it because it forces you to do the homework, continue to
sharpen your investment thesis marketing will be the byproduct of it. Marketing motivates you to do it, but the lesson
you get by doing it, it’s like doing a pro forma, you're you marry what you're what you're talking about, into the things
that you're pulling off your pro forma, and the news that affects those vital inputs. And pretty soon now you're
marketing, your pro forma, your deals, your investment thesis, they all start to knit together, and they start to be
cohesive. And the thing is, you know, it'll, it'll feel cohesive to your audience, they won't know it. Mentally, they won't
know it's cohesive, but to feel that it's cohesive, because it will be their gut will tell them this is consistent, this is
trustworthy. And every once in a while to your own heart. You know, everyone's gonna let you go, Hey, remember, you
know, when we did the future money and wealth and we did the dollar under attack, and we showed the precious
equity strategy and gold was, you know, 1200 bucks 11 1150. Remember that? That would have been probably pretty
smart. If you would have done that back then. or things like that, you know? Things that I've written in the newsletters
over the year like it doesn't surprise me that, that they're floating taxes. | literally just floated that idea a couple

weeks ago. Because | felt like it was one of the ways that they would try to hide the fact that we've got inflation
they've got they've got, they're not trying to stimulate the economy right now. They act like they are, but they're not.
That's why we continue to have, you know, lock downs and mask mandates and, and they've got it if this thing takes
off, if the supply of oil right now if the if the price of oil right now is 60 $65. And people are working from home and
the travel industry is devastated. What's going to happen when all that opens up $120 a barrel oil. And then what
happens? Because that has a ripple effect and everything, right? All sudden, all this inflate, they're trying to hide the
inflation, because by their own justification with modern monetary theory, rising prices is the key they printed too
much, but they can't stop. Because if they stop interest rates rise they are they in that monetary roach motel Peter
has been warning us about forever. But anyway, so he | hope that part about how the pro forma your investment
thesis in the news, they can all dovetail together. And then when you're when you're writing about the things that
you're learning, you know, don't, don't try to be smart. But just explain why you're doing what you're doing. and say if
you know as the investment thesis unfolds, this is what | would expect to see happen. And then if it does, then great,
you look smart. If it doesn't, then you adjust and it looks like you're in control, you're driving the ship. And what
people want to know when they're in a vehicle. As much as they want to know that the vehicle is headed in the right
direction. | mean, even when the ship you know, the Titanic hit the iceberg, people wanted to know somebody was at
the helm, somebody was still in charge trying to right the ship, right? Even if things go wrong, they want to know that
somebody who's thinking who's trained who's paying attention is at the helm. That's who you are as a syndicator.
And so the news is your way of demonstrating to people that you are looking, you're looking down the path and
you're navigating this portfolio, you're stewarding their money, with good counsel with diligent attention. And trying
to to navigate a very complex set without, again, making it too complex, right, get your core thesis down. And then
it's all variations on a theme. Alright, so | hope some of that came out. Because, you know, we started with Jerry, but,
you know, for me, you know, I'm obviously leading this out of my core way | look at the world, which | think is based
on a fair amount of research and an observation and input from experts. It's still just my, my perspective. But | always
kind of come back to the same core themes, because that's all there really is. It’s those few things, you know, the
dollar being invested in things that are real and essential, realizing that debt, interest rates and the bond market are
things that are core to creating a portfolio that can navigate a falling dollar. And then the question is, okay, well, how
do | how do | do that? Well, depends on what the market gives you, right? Depends on what loan programs are
available, what product types, niches are available, what government programs and subsidies and incentives or
penalties come into existence, and you just have to continually watch and adjust. And again, because real estate
moves slowly, it takes time to get in position, you got to be looking further down the road as much as you can. And |
like that, john, that you brought up the pro forma, because that was a great point. Because all of those key inputs,
index back to factors and influencers, that, that if you start paying attention to you, you can actually weave
everything you're doing all together into a cohesive investment thesis backed up by what you're seeing in the news.
So hopefully, all that made sense. We're a little bit over any closing comments or questions from anybody anything

that | didn't cover? | know | kind of, you know, sorry, I'd monologue a little bit, but | love it. Craig,

@e Craig Kamman_ 1:04:15

I've got a real quick one. | just posted an article, Fannie Mae is set the target for investor loan second homes for 7%.
They're currently running at about 14%. My theory was is they saw something coming down the pipe that they were
trying to prevent, like too many investors going into the market. But when you were just talking, I'm wondering if it

has more to do with that if they’re trying to hide inflation or something while Fannie Mae?

© Russ 1:04:42

Yeah, there's that that's exactly they're trying to. They're trying to slow things down. And, you know, it’s not easy,
right? We're like a bunch of resources and we want to go work we want to create, we want to produce, we want to do

business. We should be free to do that, but we can't Because it exposes their theft, it exposes that they printed too
© Russ 17:47

You said the cares act. You said the cares act just about bankrupted Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo sells asset
management to an equity firm Wells Fargo to sell asset management for 2.1 billion. They're the largest holder of
mortgages, | believe. The say three and a half million of forbearance of Wells Fargo held a million of these loans with
an average of 2000 a month that's 2 billion per month in lost revenue. Ouch. can't fathom the shack shockwaves
that are going to hit? Can this still be papered over by the Fed? If so at what cost? Well, yes, it can be papered over
by the Fed. And at what cost the dollar, it all comes back to the dollar. The dollar is under extreme pressure. And |
just, | mean, that's the core thesis. That's what's behind precious equity. That's why you see oil prices equity being
being the strategy that we're coming up with to to pull equity out of real estate and convert it into gold. And I'll have
that series done here. | hope in the next week or two. But But yeah, | mean, in Wells Fargo is you know, basically a
systemic too big to fail institution. They're an inside institution, the Fed will absolutely paper over it, they have to,
they have to. And so so how do they do it by printing? by printing dollars? and at what price? people losing faith in
the dollar? Okay, why are you raising taxes because it forces people to earn more dollars? Right, you have to create
demand for dollars when the dollar collapsed in 1971. Kissinger went over to Saudi Arabia and set up the Petro dollar
why to suck up the float. Right all these dollars needed to get placed somewhere. And so by taking the largest
commodity in the world energy and making it 100% denominated in in dollars, it sucked up a lot of the excess
dollars and took some pressure off the dollar. Okay. The other thing is you go out and you lend to his as many
countries as you can and create dollar denominated debt and in order to pay that debt off, what are those countries
have to do? They have to earn dollars. And so what's another way to create demand for the dollar taxes You can only
pay your taxes in dollars. So if you raise taxes, you put more pressure on workers to earn dollars, you create demand
for dollars. And they don't need the tax revenue. | mean, they admitted that back in the 40s, they have no need for
tax revenue, they can, they can print as many dollars as they want. They do it, they do it for two purposes. One is to
manipulate people's behavior at both the individual in the corporate level. And they do it in order to they do it in
order to meter or moderate the inflation they create, if they overprint they put pressure on the economy by taxing it,
and that that's what they're doing.

Craig Kamman 20:47

So at some point, the music has to stop, right, is that when we go off the Petro dollar? | mean, well, that's

Russ 20:54

kind of happening right now. That's | mean, you know, and the thing is, the first person who tried to do it, as we
talked about last time was Saddam Hussein. Soon as they got the Euro, introduced in 99, Saddam Hussein is kind of
the leader of the Middle East oil. You know, he's the strongest army fourth largest army in the world came out and
said, hey, let's, let's, let's use the euro. And, and then they took Saddam Hussein out. | mean, if you were sitting there
looking, we went into Afghanistan after terrorists. And next thing, you know, you know, we take this left turn and go
into Saudi Arabia, | mean, into Iraq, and you're like, what are we doing? Well, we took Saddam Hussein out and broke
up that coalition. Right. So you know, it’s easy to | mean, it's fascinating stuff. If you're like me, it's like watching a
murder mystery. And it’s just, it's entertaining. But you got to bring it back down to what does is matter to me. mean,
what does this really matter to me, you know, so how do you use the answer, Craig, what are you going to do with
your? Why do you want to know? Are you talking to investors as part of your marketing program, part of your
investing thesis?

PP nn mn ne WF ne ee AAO
yield will go even more negative, because it has to interest rates are in a black hole, it's crossed the event horizon. |
mean, you know, and then you could look at the taxes right now. | mean, you know, Chris martenson talked about
this on the summit A few years ago, he just realized that at the way we're increasing debt, it's exponential. Eight, to
16, we're closing in on 32, every eight years, it doubles. So that debt is the inverse of the debt is dollars, because all of
those that debt represents dollars that were created out of thin air. Right, when you get a mortgage, the seller gets
the proceeds from that mortgage, that's real money that they get. And they go do something with that it's in the
system. But it didn’t exist until you took the loan out. And that game has been going on for a long, long time. And
we're just at the end game. And so, you know, it’s it’s scary, because it’s a change. But it isn't the first time that it’s
collapsed in the United States. | mean, we've been through several resets in our history, as long as we retained the
right to have private property and to contract, we will have opportunity, if we lose the right to own private property
and to have private contracts, then then then all bets are off, right? It doesn't matter. We don't have any essential

freedom for building wealth. We're reset right full blown. Now the reset is simply just resetting the currency.

Craig Kamman_ 27:48
But that that was no private property. Well, |

Russ 27:51

mean, they're trying to convince you of that, because a lot of people are going to lose in this reset. People who are
who are wrong footed are going to lose. People have money in the bank are going to lose people who are sitting on
dollars are going to lose. Hmm, you know, | right now, I'm reading a lot of history, like economic history, I'm reading
all the way back to the founding of the country, the Federalist Papers, the history of the Constitution, and I'm not
reading what historians have written. I'm reading what the original founding fathers had to say in their debates. I'm
reading The Autobiography of people like Theodore Roosevelt, | just got done reading a biography by Andrew
Jackson, who took down the second bank. | haven't found an autobiography of him yet, but you're trying to find
people that have studied his life in you know, if you just read Andrew Jackson's farewell address, or read,
Eisenhower's farewell address, | mean, these guys, you know, this has been going on for a while. And I've just realized,
| woke up one day and realized I'm 60 years old, I'm probably one of the older guys in the room, if not the oldest guy,
maybe Randy, oh, give me a run for my money. But But at the end of the day, I've seen a lot, you know, and I'm not
the young guy trying to figure it out and listening to the old guy. | am the old guy. And so | got to go read people
that are older than me to know what the heck is going on in context. So yeah, I'm desperate to understand because |
know that there's a lot of uncertainty and change coming. But you got to remember it the basic principle or belief
system that | have any way that | think is the only way that makes all this navigable, is that the flip side of every
problem is opportunity. Right? Every single thing that is going wrong, and there's a lot going wrong means there's all
kinds of opportunities on the other side of that the mission is not to get paralyzed in fear, but to continue to search
for answers. And so you ask a great question. How do you position your portfolio | come back to what | said. buy
things that are real and essential and go short. The dollar is conserved. As you can it real estate, especially real
estate with gold and maybe energy and some, you know, other things mixed into it, that's kind of the the secret
sauce, in my opinion right now. And then you just have to wait and see what the powers that be actually do, will they
be able to pull off or reset? Will the dollar just become, you know, another currency? And then they'll have some type
of a global reserve currency like an SDR or will we manage to go back to a gold standard? | don't know. | don't know.
But, you know, for right now, the dollar is in trouble. All the odds are against it. And so | think that a strategy that
doesn't, doesn't expose over expose you to deflation, which is probable, you know, likely from a demand perspective,
because demand goes down when when money doesn't buy much, right? | mean, doesn’t matter if the toilet paper
cost a million bucks, right? It might seem like that. But it’s not going to be much demand, right? People are gonna
find another another way. You know what | mean? So you can have both. That's why this whole stagflation thing has
caught my attention, because we haven't seen this really, where you've got a really stagnant economy in terms of
actual productivity, people working people producing things, | mean, you might have money circulating, you can
o

talked about raising taxes as much as a trillion dollars. So tax shelters are going to be something else that | think
people are going to be interested in. And you have to understand that that monetary policy, in terms of in certainly
fiscal, monetary policy in terms of interest rates, in the Fed buying mortgage backed securities and pumping money
and protecting real estate, that has to continue, in my opinion. Because if they don't then the bond market, the
financial markets, the whole system implodes, so all the pressure is on the currency. And so, you know, it's a long
answer, but it's a great question. And | think it's the most germane question. And the most important topic in any
investment thesis right now is where interest rates headed, where is the dollar headed? And how, how do you position
yourself to be safely short the dollar and there's really no better way to do it than real estate, the only thing that
makes it better is when you add gold to the portfolio. Now, you've really got to but you got to use debt. And that’s
why interest rates matter. So | talked quite a bit. Hopefully all that made sense, Jared, Did that answer your question?
Which is,

Jarrid Cavanaugh 14:46

yeah, no, no answer that I'm more just looking at how it’s gonna affect me and my investors personally, just in
commercial lending world, you know, especially 235 years and to the future.

Russ 14:56

Well, if the financial system implodes, then then there will be no lending, okay, there will be no lending. If the bond
market implodes like it did in 2008, there will be a temporary no lending scenario, then there'll be a big opportunity
in debt, we, we started the syndication program on the back end of it, because we saw the opportunity for private
capital to fill the gap where institutional capital had failed. So that's part of it. The other part of it, of course, is just
recognizing that until that happens, that that there is cheap money available and a lot of incentive to keep the
money cheap, but the risks that they lose control, so even though the money is cheap, and you might get a little
cheaper, if you were to use short term financing, | still am an advocate of long term financing, but you have to own
real assets, you have to have debt, and you're going to need tax shelters, | think going forward, and you're gonna
have to watch very carefully as they craft new tax policy, what shelters continue to remain available, they have to
have them. But and I'm going to guess that they're still going to be largely associated with real estate because they
have to protect the value of real estate, because there's too many bonds that are guaranteed by real estate. And
again, if the bonds go bad, the financial system breaks, everything they're trying so desperately to hold together falls
apart. So, you know, | think, again, you're you're on the right track, you just have to help people understand it. But in
simple, simple terms, if interest rates go up, bond markets implode all the pressures on the Fed to prevent that from
happening. And specifically, they have to protect the value of collateral, which is real estate. So there's going to be
an history says in 2008, they were buying bonds to drive down the rates, and they were buying mortgage backed
securities to prop up real estate, they're doing the same thing, right now, it's what they have to do. Once you get that,
then you understand why this is such an exciting space to be in why investors should be be getting more and more of
their capital into, you know, the safer haven not the safe because there's no safe risk is everywhere. But the safer
haven a lot less volatile. And when it is manipulated, it's manipulated to your benefit, not against you. Whereas you
can't necessarily say that's true. Although | mean, it is largely true in the stock market, too. But it’s, it’s so volatile. You
know, you can't you can't you don't have the the predators in the real estate market the way you do in the stock
market, because they just can't move things around fast enough. It's too It's too messy. It’s too clunky, which is why
there's so much opportunity for us. Okay, all right. So I'm going to call that a day and move on to the next one. Craig,
you had a question.

Craig Kamman_ 17:45

| don't remember which one.
 

What | don’t understand is how it could affect commercial multifamily. Or what it could mean for guys like us. So
that's kind of what I'm really thinking about. If the Fed implements some kind of yield curve control, is that gonna?
Do we anticipate that'll likely stabilize investors for at least a certain period of time? Or? Or what that could mean?

Russ 03:22

Okay, so, good question. And then let me ask you this. How do you plan on using what you learn?

Jarrid Cavanaugh 03:32

Well, depending on what you say, and what you think, and then what | learned about it, is how all play that | guess,
you know, | mean, if the, if the Fed does nothing in the 10 year just go sharply vertical. | mean, that could have severe
implications for a lot of standard homeowners, you know, so | think one, | could use it in my monthly newsletter that's
coming up. That could be one, but then also just talking to investors about how it affects commercial mortgages

differently than how it affects what they might understand.

Russ 04:05

Okay, good. | always gonna challenge you guys with those questions. | want to make sure that you are, you know,
again, not going down these, these rabbit trails and getting lost in the curiosity. So let me take a stab at this. First of
all, just kind of the concept of interest rates is derived out of the bond markets. So just like cap rates with
apartments, nobody really sets the interest rate. Even though the Fed talks about setting setting the interest rate,
what they do is they set a target, and then they operate through the FOMC. The Fed Open Market Committee,
buying and selling treasuries in order to manipulate interest rates really threw out there's two that they basically
manage, it's the cost of overnight lending between the banks. | think that's called the federal funds rate. And then I'm
exposing my rustiness. | can't remember what discount rate is the other one. But, you know, in the real world, unless
you're an economist or a bond trader, or somebody that is really at you know, kind of at a high level, you're not going
to spend a bunch of time worried about that. So | try to keep it very, very simple. Interest rates are a derived out of
again, that that that spread in that bid and and every interest rate is based on a risk premium. So when you're giving
up money today, by lending it and you're taking some risk, then you are, you want to get paid a premium for that.
And theoretically, the longer out you land, the more you would expect to receive because you're taking interest rate
risk. And that's kind of when when Jerry's talking about the yield curve, it's the soread between the short term rate
and the long term rate. If you plot out the the short term rate and the long term rate, you end up with a curve, there
should be a curve. And when the curve is moving in the wrong direction, it means for whatever reason, the the people
are not not having faith in what's going on long term. So again, | don't want to get lost in that because clearly, I'm
not an expert. And in my experience, it hasn't mattered that much. That's great. If you're a Currency Trader, or a
bond trader, or somebody that’s trying to make those macro decisions, here's the thing you need to understand in
real estate, we borrow money. So we're very concerned about the direction of interest rates in the short term,
especially because we're making those decisions, when to refund finance, whether to lock whether to use fixed or
adjustable. And so when we're making our long term plans, especially like on a value add where we think, okay, we're
going to refinance this property in five years or eight years, we got to have some idea where we think rates are
headed. And for most of us, we've been an environment since paul volcker jacked rates up to to break the back of
inflation, which is really stagflation. Back in the early 80s, we've been in a 40 year long term, declining interest rate
trend, and we bottomed out, we hit the zero bound several years ago. And every time we try to get up off that mat,
we end up getting slammed back down. And there's reasons for that. But the cost of money is based on that risk
premium. So at the center of risk is our US Treasuries because treasuries are denominated in dollars, and the dollar is
the world's reserve currency. And therefore the US government through the Federal Reserve can print as many

dollars as they want. And they will never ever, ever default on their their bonds. So the risk isn't that you're not going
JO

Yes. Is the Fed behaving like they're concerned about the bond market? And the banking system? Yes. Is the
government can, you know, acting like they're concerned about affordable housing? And, you know, is the Fed
stepping in and purchasing mortgages? Yes. Right. Are they giving money directly to people? Do they care about
people having a roof over their head vision more towards foreclosure? More tribes? Yes. Right. So my thesis, | think, is
supported by what | see happening, if | see changes, and I'm going to have to revisit what | think. But right now,
that's my interpretation of what's happening, my investment thesis is based on that. And | just, you never want to get
so locked into your paradigm or your belief system, you can't see the winds of change, blowing. That's why we do the
session. That's why | encourage you guys to do that. And if you if you stay a little bit ahead, as | found, you'll end up
having an audience | mean, you'll have people who are interested in hearing what you have to say, especially if you
can bring it down from the stratosphere and bring it back down to Main Street and talk to them about their fears
and their portfolio and your hedging strategies. Okay. All right. So what else did anybody else? | saw some other
stuff. There's all kinds of stuff going on in the chat box that | can't see. JOHN, you got something?

41:44

I'm just thinking based on your commentary that you're convinced, as am |, you're convinced that our system is in
some stage of crumbling, you're convinced that the central bankers and politicians recognize the crumble and want
to do something about it to maintain themselves as long as they can to avoid insurrection? So it seems like one
strategy is just to figure out, and what is the government's mechanism for doing such it’s rules and regulations, and
it's funneling money into channels that they feel are going to prop up the system. So if if, if the government is on a
course of propping up, that’s the new paradigm, we're gonna keep this thing from crumbling for as long as we can
find out where those money flows are going? And just get in front of them? And get a little piece of them

Russ 42:48

know exactly, exactly. | mean, that's the tide, that’s been Tom wheelwrights thing for the longest time, the tax code
provides you clues about where the government wants you to put your money. So, obviously, you know, we're
watching tax policy, not just because we're trying to figure out how to mitigate tax, but also trying to figure out to
your point where the money's headed, you have to look at other things. You know, there's there was a lot of pork, |
think everybody knows that. Anybody that paid 80, | think was ron johnson spent 11 hours reading the entire stimulus
bill. But the high notes are that very little of the money actually, | think only 9% of the money actually went to the
people. And the rest of it went to pay off. states that, you know, have bad balance sheets, a bunch of it went into
pension Kiyosaki has been talking for the longest time about the dangers to pension funds. And so there was a
pension bailout hidden in there. Which again, doesn't surprise me. So if you just go, Okay, well, you look at all these
tentacles, where does it all come back to it all comes back to the Fed and the dollar. | mean, it all comes back to
that, right? If you took if you took the feds ability to print unlimited amounts of dollars away, all of the rest of it stops,
the wars, stop all of the pork stops, a lot of the corruption stops a lot of the malinvestment or bubbles, that stops, all
of it stops, right. That's it. | mean, if you wanted to see her and have a debate about you know how to fix it, that's
how you fix it. But of course, the thing is, none of us have any control over that. So that's not going to happen. So
what we need to do is say, Okay, well, what are they going to try to do not trying to fix it, but trying to prevent it from
collapsing. And those are two different agendas. Because trying to fix it would be taking themselves out of power
and getting out of the way. But they're not going to do that. So they're going to try to wait away to your point to stay
in power and their power base is the ability to print unlimited amounts of dollars. And if they completely ruined the
dollar, then they're going to have to reset the dollar to something else or they're going to reset it to a new value.
They're going to back it by something to get people to believe in it again, or they're going to completely switch out
and, and and back it up by some other, you know, whether it's a central bank digital currency, or some, you know,
international currency that they can control. That's what | think is going to happen. But But yeah, you just have to
realize that all the pressures still, you know, again, the main theme, all the pressures on the dollar, watch the dollar
and invest, leaning towards the idea that the dollar is probably in the long term going to be weak in spite of
occasional blips up, right, because they're just taking their turn. | mean, it’s, it’s, it's not a perfect analogy, | always get
the two mixed up. But you know, when you jump out of an airplane, obviously, once you pull your chute, you can't
repack it. But imagine you could, right? Imagine you jumped out of the plane and you're all falling, and you're taking
turns pulling your chute, and in changing your relative position, as you are all falling. And the notion that the system
is going to decline. | mean, let's face it, we're all terminal every one of us, right? We're all on a collision course. And
that's true for governments that true for currencies, that's true for, you know, so you can't get too caught up in that,
right. You can't live your life being afraid of dying, you just live your life, right? You can't invest being afraid of the
system collapsing, it's going to collapse. And we probably are closer, obviously, to the collapse of this current system
than we were 10 years ago, or 20 years ago, or 50 years ago, by definition. How many resets are left before the whole
thing falls apart? | don't know. | don't know. You know, those are fun conversations to have. If you ask Peter Schiff, it
should have happened 15 years ago. Right. But, you know, maybe they've got more lives than a cat, we'll find out. But
we just have to pay attention to kind of the macro picture and then understand the key components. And the key
components for our purposes, our basic human needs, and how are they going to get met, the currency that business
is going to be transacted in, and the debt markets that actually create that currency and price of that debt. And
those are kind of the core components. And of course, you know, again, if you think about it, real estate, checks alll
those boxes, checks all those boxes. And so | think you can make a compelling argument in the midst of all this
chaos, that if you had to pick a place, | mean, if there's an earthquake, you know, they tell you stand underneath, you
know, for those of you who are on the West Coast that are in earthquake territory, they tell you standing under a
doorway, is standing under a doorway under an earthquake safe. No. Is it safer? Yes, that's why you do it. When | was
a little kid, Randy, I'm not gonna ask you how old you are, Randy. But but but I'm guessing we're pretty close. And
when | grew up, we were still doing air raid siren drills, | used to have to hide under my desk right now. If whoever |
don't know if they were they were afraid of the Japanese or the Russians, whoever they were afraid of that was going
to bomb California, because that's where | was growing up. | mean, if they drop the bomb on my elementary school,
is being under my desk safe? Well, no. Is it safer? Yes. All right. Well, if you had a choice you're doing being safe, or, or
less safe, what would you pick? Or safer? Right. And | think you know, you want to be careful when you tout the
benefits of what we do, that we're not saying that it's safe. Because you'll get in a lot of trouble. If you go out there
telling people their money is safe. What you have to do is have to explain to them the risks that exist in the market.
And then compare and contrast. The things are in step. You mentioned counterparty risk, but we really didn't go
there. But that’s a huge risk in the market right now that most investors, especially paper asset, investors do not
understand. And you can mitigate some of that for them. | just add one little comment is that when you mentioned
that, by the way, I'm | just turned 65. So | go, Okay, | feel like a spring pop now. Yeah, it’s weird. The chat was going
on, like we were, whether | was collecting Social Security, or we dove into that, like a year ago, because it's like, I'm
gonna get a while it's still there. Because who knows how long it’s gonna last? So. But yeah, we, of course, where we
grew up. We were number six on the target list during the Cold War, because | loved | literally live 30 miles away from
the Hanford nuclear site. So | mean, there was radars and our artilleries on the mountains and all that stuff. So yeah,
| was in Silicon Valley are right next to NASA Moffett Field, and they they they flew it, you know, they the big sonar,
the planes would fly back and forth and with their big, you know, those big long sonar tails, and then we had the
lucky blue cube, which was, you know, a giant Faraday cage where they did all their secret stuff. So yeah, I'm pretty
sure we were on a shortlist to. Life is full of risk. In fact, | was, you know, in my journaling time this morning, | was
reflecting on that. And | just realized that, because | was like having a little anxiety and I'm trying to figure out
where's my anxiety coming from? Where's my frustration coming from? And, you know, | looked into it, and it's a
feeling of not feeling safe. Well, then | thought, Well, okay. Well, you know, | mean, is it’s reasonable to not feel safe
when things are chaotic, right? | mean, investors should be concerned right now, there's reasons to be concerned. But
as | said, My paradigm is the flip side of that is opportunity. But, you know, | think the quote that | came up with, and
| googled to see if anybody else had said it, it seems like somebody else would have but | couldn't find it. I'm not
claiming it to be an original. But here’s the concept. Life is risky, get over it. That's it life is risky, get over investing is
risky. Get over it. | mean, it doesn't mean you're Cavalier. Right. That's why we have investment thesis. That's why we
do due diligence. That's why we monitor the news for the changes. And we try to look as far out on the horizon as we
can we listen to people that look at world from different perspectives. So that we have a 360 s with the summit is all
about is that opportunity to come together and pick up bits and pieces. Many of the things that you hear in my
thinking have been developed out of things I've learned on the summit, you know, the exponential growth of debt,
March 17, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Clues
in the Ne...

@ Thu, 9/23 11:57PM © 1:06:44

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, dollar, investment thesis, money, interest rates, debt, currency, real estate, fed, pro forma, real, questions, investors,

market, conversations, reading, happening, government, inflation, pay

SPEAKERS

Russ, Craig Kamman, Jarrid Cavanaugh

Russ 00:17

Hey everyone, it’s rush syndication mentoring club, ask the mentors today we're doing clues in the news or what we
call clues in the news. And we do have some great questions. And we have a big group of folks. So I'm excited about
that and curious to hear about your questions. | do have one thing, though, that | want to say to everybody that |
think is important. Because | know from experience, this is can be such an interesting topic. It's easy to go down a lot
of hypotheticals, a lot of what ifs, a lot of you know, rabbit trails, being curious about what's going on. And the whole
kind of mantra behind the syndication veteran club is to keep this thing real to keep it very focused on what's going
on in the real world. And what can help you and your syndication business. So when you ask questions, which are
great, and | just remembering a good turn my phone off here. When you ask questions, which is great, | hope there
are questions that are coming out of a conversation that you got into with an investor, or a prospective investor that
you would like to engage that you already know is interested in a particular topic, and you're just trying to bring
yourself up to speed. Maybe you are experimenting with some different things that you might write about, or might
talk about, that are germane to your investment thesis, maybe the market that you're in the asset class, the niche,
the financing strategy, whatever it is, so I'm going to do my best to take the questions that you've asked and answer
them. But | want to make sure that | stay focused on bringing it back to the real world. And, and then, you know, as
you're for formulating new questions, or even comments that you have, I'm going to try to prevent us from going too
far down these rabbit trails in the conversation, because it's really more about how do we use the news to make
better investment decisions for our investors? And how do we use the news to build better stronger relationships with
investors? And how do we use the news to get into conversations? or start conversations with with prospective
investors? Okay, so with that kind of as a backdrop, the first question, Jared, actually, is from you. So I'm gonna go

ahead and let you ask it unless you You want me to read it?

@ Jarrid Cavanaugh 02:43

No, | can ask it. So | had to soldier since there’s so many people, and | don’t want to monopolize the time, I'll kind of
combine them into one. So I've just kind of been watching and reading and then also been getting into conversations
about the 10 year Treasury. And | know, | have a vague idea of how much that affects residential mortgage rates,
much money. There's no escape from that. Because | mean, you know, the horse is out of the barn, right? The money
is in circulation. So now it's just they just have to try to they, they're trying to meter it. So you're gonna see | think
downward pressure. Which you know, can be an opportunity can be an opportunity doesn't surprise,

1:05:30

JO

the gold. And when is that program coming out?

© Russ. 1:05:33

Oh, well, I've got I've got, | think it’s like 15 episodes, I've got, | think 11 of them done, | got four more to bang out.
Anyway, we need to call this a wrap. So appreciate you guys being here and letting me kind of, you know, go on. I'm
flattered that so many of you showed up. Hopefully you got value. Keep your questions coming. But just remember,
you know, try to keep it always ask yourself, how does this help me connect with an investor make a better
investment decision or attract a new investor into a conversation with me? Right? If it doesn't fit into kind of that box,
then you know, you're you're you're in danger of chasing shiny objects or, you know, satiating curiosity. It's just fun. It’s
a good hobby. But as far as the business side of it, you always have to make sure you keep it directly relevant to what

you're trying to do. Okay. Okay, guys, | think it’s all guys. We'll call that a wrap. appreciate all of you. Thank you so
much, and we'll see you next time.

@ Jarrid Cavanaugh 1:06:29

Everyone, | guess
Ww Graig AQMMaN 41:56

Yeah, | get the question a lot. And one of it is where's the safe place to park money? You know, where do you go first

© Russ 22:05

of all money? safe place to park money is in your safe? Right? | mean, that's the safest place you golden, you're safe.
Gold is money, currency is not. That's number one doesn't it’s not that. Yeah, because number one, that's number
one. And then number two is you have to own things that are real and essential. We've been talking about this. |
mean, anybody that's been around us any number of years for our summit is going all the way back to 2010. | think
maybe even before coming out of the financial crisis, you have to own things that are real and essential. Real Estate,
especially essential real estate, housing is number one top of list affordable housing, because as Jesus said, you're
always going to have the poor, you always and the government is always going to be sucking up to the fats part of
the fat spot of the voting base. And that's going to be the bulk of people that are you know, in the middle or at the
bottom right, there’s not too many people at the top That's why they call them the 1% or the 3%. Right so all the
people that they're catering to are the people at the bottom so there's going to be subsidies section eight subsidized
housing you know, you look at the loan programs are all designed at the lower levels if you want to big house a
jumbo you pay more you don't get to subsidize financing. It's like you don't need it. It you know, all the all the all the
government programs are designed to hit the fat spot of the demographic of the population. Right, because you
know, Energy, Agriculture, all the things we talked about precious metals, real money, all the things that are real,
that's what you want to own. And then it really comes down to into portfolio strategy and investing thesis How do
you put the portfolio together? Right, if you've if you've believed that all the pressures on the dollar and the dollars
107 year whatever it is 104 year history of falling is going to continue? Then you want to be short, the dollar how do
you do that debt? What's the best vehicle for getting into debt real estate because it comes with a payment and tax
break. And it's a real asset. And it's protected by the powers that be because it backs up their bond market keeps
you know, it’s it's there, it’s there. It's what it’s the key to keeping the | gotta be careful here. Keeping keeping Main
Street, you know, cranking out work, generating dollars to pay those mortgage payments, generating dollars to pay
those taxes. Right, it all comes back to the dollar to the currency and maintaining their monopoly. That's why you
know, this way when you see what's happening in Bitcoin, it tells you people are trying to get away from the dollar.
When you look at what's happened to gold over the last 20 years. It's pretty obvious people are trying to get away
from the dollar. When you look at what central banks are doing the ones that aren't in bed with the United States.
You know, Russia hardly holds any treasuries, if any at all. They converted it all into gold. China wisely borrowed as
much money as they could in dollars and went out and bought things that are real, they bought natural resources,
farmland, oil, commodity mines all over the world.

© Craig Kamman_ 25:11

They need to be able to present this in basic terms, | go down too many rabbit holes in my head. You know,

© Russ 25:16

you can't even see what's going on unless you keep it in simple terms. That's my whole point. if interest rates rise, the
bond market implodes, the Fed can’t permit that they must keep rates down. What does it mean, they have to do
print? | can explain that in 15 seconds. Yep. And if you understand the inverse relationship between the value of the
bond and the interest rate, it’s easy to figure out real estate investors if they know cap rates know, right, nobody
wants to buy at a low cap rate and sell at a high cap rate. It's the other way around. That's what you hope for. Right?
So it’s the same thing, you know, in the bonds, like why would anybody have a negative yield on a bond because
they think somebody is going to come along and pay even more for the bond. They're trading for capital gains,
they're not investing for income on a negative yielding bond, they just think somebody will bid even more, and the
Jo

JO

JO

finite resources, the role of energy in the economy, | learned all of that on the summit. Obviously, I've learned a ton
from Peter and from Robert Kiyosaki, those most of that happened on the summit. So you know, as you're thinking
about where you're at, in your own personal development as an investor, and you think about your marketing, |

mean, | trust it, you're all going to be at the summit, you should be because it's no better opportunity to come back
with stories about how you had a conversation over drinks with Peter Schiff, or Ken McElroy. And, you know, it’s not
just brand building, although you're gonna get some of that photo ops and whatnot, and, you know, have stories to
tell, but you're actually going to learn something useful. And you're going to have time to get into conversations like
this that don't last an hour, or don't last a day, but it goes on for nine days, it's ridiculous. You got to believe that just
one good investing decision, one good relationship, or one opportunity discovered is going to be making more than
worth it. | mean, that's the appeal | make when | recruit people to come. And | think the testament is how many
faculty and how many, some materials come back year after year after year after year. It should make you money.
But you know, you got to engage in those conversations. And the more prep work you do going in, the more prepared
you are to have conversations. And | think if you haven't listened to the show that we just did about the next
generation, one of the things we talked about, and | think our team put a deal up on our on my LinkedIn, little
snippet, but it's what I've learned about being in rooms where I'm in way over my head, right? | mean, here, I'm sitting
here and I'm pontificating, and I'm waxing, you know, because I'm the mentor. But some some of those rooms | walk
into, and I'm like a low man on the totem pole. And | just need to, | need to listen, | need to ask questions, need to
study my rear end off before | even get in the room, but even then | don't want to act like I'm smart. Anyway, | think
there's some good stuff in there. If you're planning on being on the summit, listen to it. Think about how you play your
hand when you're when you're in those rooms in those conversations. Okay, so john, | kind of stepped on you a little
bit. Did you get out everything you wanted to say?

53:35
Yeah, | think? Yes. Okay.

Russ 53:39

All right. We got six more minutes. | can’t see what's going on in the chat. So if somebody you know, if there’s a
question in there, you just | have the gallery on so | can see you. Do you want to wave your hand if you've got

something that you've seen in the news that you think is interesting.

53:55

I'll chime in on something you said. And we had this conversation in a class | was saying the other night, advanced
real estate investment valuation, and we're talking about pro formas. And some of the folks in the class were talking
the professor was making the point of you know, we're making this stuff up a pro forma, is it real? Its projections and
such. And

Russ 54:21

| always joke that pro forma is Latin for made up.

94:25

Yeah, well, he was making that point, the professor teaching the class, who's teaching us how to do pro formas of
Jo

create economic metrics, but that doesn't mean we have an economy. So if you haven't read, | did a two part series
on stagflation was, should have been three parts. It’s probably about 3000 words, but it’s probably worth the read.
And then the follow up newsletter that | just did last week. | think it’s kind of kind of where my head's at on all of this.
So you may find it a little enlightening. Okay, all right. So those who

Craig Kamman_ 31:53

had a follow up question,

Russ 31:56

okay, yeah, great. | can't see the chat. So you guys have to help me out with that. Okay, great. So Sam, what do you
got? So it’s the follow up to Well, |

32:04

guess there's relates both questions, counterparty risk. So the assets should do well, the real assets, they'll do well in
inflationary environment. But you compare if we go into hyperinflation or inflation now compared to the 70s, are the
tenants going to be as resilient now compared to tenants in the 70s? Like in the 70s, their employers didn't have
choices to go to outsource in Mexico or China, and they do now? What are your thoughts on on the stream of the

income? From from our tenants, | guess, in the upcoming environment,

Russ 32:39

it's probably going to come from the government. | mean, you're already seeing there's already calls for UBI. There's
all kinds of pressure for a national minimum wage. We've already have section eight, we have eviction moratoriums,
which is kind of, you know, the other side of it coming from the government. Now they're talking about | think, Ilan
Omar just introduced legislation. | don't know that don't see the light of day, but with the current mix in the

Congress.

Craig Kamman 33:06
Right, and,

Russ 33:09

you know, the current mix in the, in the, in the Congress in the White House, you know, | feel like almost anything is, is
possible. So the point there is that the is that the government is, is meddling quite a bit in trying to figure out a way
to take people that don't have real jobs and real incomes and empower them to be able to continue to make
payments and then when they can't make the payments directly to provide relief to the landlords, which is
something again, if you go back and listen to the show, Robert and | talked about this, you know, months ago, that
this is where it ultimately had to go. Because COVID-19 was a health crisis that turned into an economic crisis and
economic heart attack with lockdowns, currency stopped flowing. Just like when your heart stops beating, the blood
stops flowing organs, which are collections of individual cells and individuals people cells began to die and atrophy.
to get paid back your dollars. The risk is what are those dollars going to be worth even people who believe that the
debt doesn't matter, and you can print as much money as you want the people that subscribe to monitored modern
monetary theory? They they are. They recognize that when inflation shows up, then they've printed too much they've
diluted the value of the dollar that people are losing faith in it. And so you're gonna find out that really, they have no
choice, I'm going to try and bring this down down to short comment. So mortgage rates are a little bit riskier than
treasuries. But they're still very, very, very, very safe, because they're backed by a real asset that serves a basic
human need all the reasons we like investing in real estate, when you're talking to your investors, especially about
real estate, just the fact that there is very little spread between the 10 year and mortgage rates, tells you how safe
mortgages are and how safe real estate is based on people who make their living assessing risk, right. If you want a
little bit more yield, and you're willing to take a little bit more risk, the next natural place to go is into into lending on
real estate. And there's always a market for that. And there's a lot of other incentives because real estate provides
collateral for a lot of the bonds that are in the market already. And if that collateral goes bad, the bond markets go
bad. The financial system implodes all that to say there's tons and tons and tons and tons of pressure on the Fed to
keep interest rates down. So we get these little blips where interest rates go up. But really, as Peter Schiff tells us all
the time, the Fed has painted themselves into a corner, they have no choice got to keep interest rates down. That's
yield curve control. What does that mean? That means printing money and purchasing bonds. So I'm a lot less
concerned about interest rates going up on purpose. But there is a concern that interest rates would go up if the Fed
loses control, well, how in the world would they lose control? They would lose the dollar. And that's why you're seeing
what's going on in Bitcoin being concerning and the Fed is talking about it. It's why you hear a lot of allegations of
price manipulation in gold. Because they're trying to hide the fact that the dollar is losing value. You see a lot of
cooperation between the central banks to take turns devalue their currency if you've read Jim Rickards currency
wars, he talks about every bit the race to the bottom. And so when you compare the dollar index, you hear you know
how the dollar is strong or weak, it’s always compared to other currencies. And you know, Randy's on the call, and
he's a, he’s a skydiver. And the thing is, if you jump out of an airplane, and you're all looking at each other, and you're
all kind of in sync, the first person who pulls the chute looks like they went up, but they didn't go up, they're still
falling, they're just falling slower. And that's what happens when the dollar appears to be strong, it just means other
currencies are falling faster, they're all falling. And so the point of that is, is that is that any investment strategy, in my
opinion, is just my opinion, has to factor in the fact that the all the all the currencies and the dollar included, are ona
downward trajectory. Therefore, inflation is not just likely, it's actually the Fed is overtly calling it a mandate. And
there's a lot of incentive to cover up how much inflation there really is. But anybody with an ounce of common sense,
it looks around can see it everywhere, which means that debt is your friend, that assets that produce currency are
your friend, especially ones that are going to produce that are going to cover that debt. And so real estate is
extremely attractive in this particular environment, if you pick the right real estate, because if you lose control of your
debt, of course, you lose the property. And that's always a risk, which is why | advocate getting the equity out of the
property as quickly as you can and separating it from the foreclosure risk. So there was a lot there. But basically, |
think that that you're going to get these little blips up in interest rates, and the federal like today will has come out
and said, Oh, yeah, you know, we're, we're not overly concerned about it, you know, and the economy's looking good,
which is kind of their Pee Wee Herman | fell off the bike, | meant to do that. You know, the idea that interest rates are
rising, because the economy is strong, but they're not too concerned that they don't have any plans to write raise
rates. But | think the real the bigger global concept that you want to talk about is the future and the fate of the
dollar. And having an investment thesis that takes into account the 100 plus year history of the dollar failing, and all
the signs that inflation is a lot more real. You look at the price of lumber, it's doubled. You look at the price of oil from
minus 40 to nearly 70. You look at gold up 25% last year, silver up 47% your copper, people go into the grocery store,
look, go into the gas pump, it’s everywhere people can see it, they know it's real, doesn’t matter what the stats say,
that means that the dollar is failing. Because that's that's what inflation is. This isn't a supply and demand issue. This
is hardly a booming economy, it's still suffering from lockdown and supply chain. Yeah, we have some supply
shortages are driving some price issues. But at the end of the day, the Fed is going to have to print lots of money, we
got a $1.9 trillion spending package and another one coming. And | think you're gonna see, as I've said, in the last
couple of newsletters, they're trying to they're trying to hide the fact that we're in a stagflation environment. And
they're going to have to try to cool the economy off somehow and siphon off the excess dollars. A newsletter ago, |

said, one of the techniques they might use is to raise taxes and what just happened, they've already come out and
