JO

JO

JO

31, | will assume you're not interested. And I'll deal those with. No, you got you got to do
something by March 31. tell you I'm interested, I'm not interested. Give me more time,
they'll come back to you. But if you put a deadline on it, and they really want to deal meet
the deadline. And if you typically go back and you tell them I've got another lender that is
willing to commit as of April 1, but | told him | couldn't commit because | had was dealing
with you. So therefore, if you told me an answer by March 31, is yours? If not, I'll deal with
the other lender who's waiting in the wings. Now, you may or may not have done a lender.
They don't know that. But does aware now that something may happen if if they don't
need to take the date, the criteria the date that you said as long as you had a good

reason for the date?

o2;2/

| think in reality, we will have that other partner. | mean, we're meeting with that group.

52:31

Great, good, fine, but um, they say don't don't have to put the bait in all you have to keep
control of the timing. You can't let it go on and on and on. Right. Right. Because that
doesn't that's not helpful. You have to they have to be pushed one way or the other out. If
you push your menu falls apart. It was never made it never gonna happen. Right. So why
waste an extra 60 days if nothing's going to come up? Yeah. Makes perfect sense. Okay.
Well, thank you, George. Okay, we got Anybody else?

53712

No, | think that i think that's it for this evening. Okay, and we'll, we'll see you again next
month. Perfect. Looking forward to it. Terrific. Thanks, everyone. Have a good night. Good
night.
jo

JO

JO

JO

discussions I've had with them is that that they

39:27

you can guarantee how much of a Kappa What are they looking for? as protection in
dollars. | mean, take a take a number just put | don’t know how much they're planning on
loan you loaning you alright, but now what you can say is okay, if my number if my tax
returns don't come out good, give me 80% and I'll get cover the other 20% cover that
give me 100% but are guaranteed 20% with a an insurance company or a bank or a
personal guarantee or something else

40:02

So you're telling us for the loan amount we would, so the loan is written on recourse
currently. You can make it recourse for a certain amount. | actually, | offered to do full
recourse because | was confident and they said, yeah, it's not going to, it wouldn't make

them feel that much.

40:20

But you fell back in, you fell into your own your own pot. When you say recourse, how
much are you worth? What back to your tax returns? is, hey, yes, you say, Fine, I'll tell you
what, | got government bonds for a million dollars, I'll pledge them. That's a whole
different story. But if what you're what you're doing basically said, Look at me on the roof,
I'm worthless, you're back to the tax returns again. And you will go back to the original
problem. And the bankers are not business people. They don't know what they're looking
for. So you're going to you're going to give them all the information tax returns, but you
don't know if they will accept it or not. Until such time as it as the audit Museum, and |
submit to the government, because very often you're you're not going to accept the audit
and you're going to take it up to the next highest level. So what you've got just as it is a
maybe without having really a firm commitment.

A1:26

So the plan B option, oh, well, the plan is to work with this lender and get it over the finish
line with the solutions. Like if it's, you know, pledging those specific assets to help them
feel comfortable.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

have written up what are you going to develop into? So well, depending on probably

higher density? Like maybe either mixed use type? Things like that? No.

19:07

But when you say a strip Plaza, we're talking about commercial or residential,
commercial. Yes. commercial property and turning into residential. Yeah, either all
residential or Okay, Park, whatever it is. So maybe mixed use. Yeah, probably. Okay. That's
great.

19:22

Yeah. So we're looking at things where potentially there could be some vacancies, you
know, maybe a core tenant has left, things like that. So we're kind of wondering from your
point of view on lending, say there’s high vacancy whether the lender would be looking at
this as financing it as vacant

19:42

but you can't with the lender forget to put Where's what authority or what what do you

need from Linda? You know, what's the deal you made with the London Well,

19:51

we're right now we're just in the in the preliminary process, so we're just yet but you can't
that's pre post that the lender will tell you what they want. Yeah. For sure, | just wondered
in general, whether they would typically be more looking at them as, as a, you know, more

of a development like raw land or whether they look at income.

20:10

| understand where you are. But let me tell you this. If lenders were smart businessmen,
they wouldn't be lenders. They'd be in business. So they look at one thing, how do | get my
money back? That's all they're concerned with. If you can show them or they can believe
how they get their money back at whatever, they're happy, Don't go Don't go into too
many details. They don't know the first thing about vacancies or they don't know how
long it’s going to take you to build or what the cost is going to be. You give them too

much information, you confuse them, and they don't know. Right? So usually, they the way
JO

JO

JO

JO

36:41

Understand what liabilities is, what are they wanted to come out? What are they? What
would they accept? In January returns? Why would they accept this that they didn't get to
say yeah, if your tax return shows this? Fine. What is that that number? You'll see what I'm
saying? Essentially, yeah, Hey, good, you're now filing your tax returns? Or no? It if the tax
return, basically suppose under the tax returns my total liability for the two years is
100,000 for each of the years, so my liability is 200,000. Are they satisfied with that? If
they satisfy what you got a guaranteed it'll come out to 200,000. that's doable.

37:26

And I'd be okay with even doing that. | I've explained to them that look, we've we've done
a lot of renovations, I'm expecting passive losses, | think, what their their concern is they
don't they don't want the IRS to come over and say, Hey, suppose a lot of taxes and now

we're going to take

37:44

over the bracket, | understand this point is you can go you there is way that you can give
them the protection, that you guarantee the excess in the event that the taxes come up
higher than the number they would accept. But in order to do that, you have to know
what numbers they would accept. Okay, so now just as you're going through, and then you
even go back on the prior year, whatever it is for 2017. What were your taxes in 2017? |
don't know. But you then assume it did it. Unless your business changed dramatically
between 27 2018 there's, there's not going to be a huge number of taxes. So you can cover
the gap. But you have to have a starting point, would they accept 2017? If the answer is
yes, he answered or 2017. Now, which is not it’s beyond audit, because it's only good for
three years, they try to pull you up for three years. So but if if you could give them some
protection, that your the amount of taxes you paid in that year would be done that taxes
you pay in subsequent years would be that amount plus maybe 20%, increase 30%,
whatever number is some other number. And hold on to that. Would they be satisfied with
that? If the answer is yes, that's the way to do it. If the answer is no, and they want to look,

you got a hard road a hole because they're always going to find something wrong.

39:12

Right. And | think because yeah, we've looked at a couple solutions. | haven't looked at

that solution. That's a good idea. | should ask them about that. My hunch, just in the
JO

JO

JO

JO

And they're not good. So they don't know or, or what the valuation is. So now you're
getting 10 acres in the front. As you get 50 acres in the back. What's the respective | know,
but they don't know. Before they congenic i 68 is a good land. So it's an educational
process to involved. That's great. Awesome. That would make no that's good. Those are
the best deals I've ever seen. Yeah. Yeah. Can love when the other deals I've ever seen is
land banking.

29:55

Yeah, cuz the other idea we had was we our architect has some he's dealt with other fair
grounds as far as creating revenue generation for them and things so we thought maybe

some sort of swap of information as well as far as helping them with with their

30:11

understand fair grounds are great idea Why? Because it’s a temporary use of land without
making big crowd huge problems. I'm not building big buildings out. I'm using a fairground
right now, that's land banking. As long as you have the philosophy, which is true, that land
will appreciate in value over a period of time. That doesn’t mean you won't have option
downs, but it will appreciate. So now, if the use covers the cost of the basic costs, but
doesn't create any money, that’s fine. Because if you're looking five years, 10 years down
the pike, when the land value is there, you're talking about a huge growth factor. Great. So
depending on the site, it's there’s a lot of flexibility to be achieved. And while | appreciate
appreciate all your advice, you're welcome. You're lucky enough to have plenty of if | know
what the problem is. I'll tell you how to solve it. Okay,

31:14

thank you. Well, George, I'd like to follow on from Gordon's question, because we have a
similar situation. In our case, we actually did do a ground lease. And this is actually for
mobile home park. And what we're finding is that, you know, we built this from scratch
with fairly expensive bridge financing, and getting permanent financing on the properties
turned out to be extraordinarily difficult. Yeah, but that’s because of the product. Right?
mobile homes. Right.

SAS

Okay, new mobile homes, a lot of lenders, major lenders got hit very hard when they
JO

JO

JO

made home made loans on mobile homes, because if they have to foreclose, it’s not worth
a lot. It's not like a one on one family house. Lindsay was all good bricks and mortar, it's
illusory. So the nature of the investment is going to change what how the banks look at it.
That doesn't mean you shouldn't do it. | mean, I've seen deals with mobile homes in
fabulous. And I've seen mobile homes that are close to one fail. Typical developments,
with roads, water and sewer and everything at this point, you said instead of having a
foundation, you've got a mobile home, but mobile homes come in all sizes and shrinks to
add? Well.

32:36

Yeah, | mean, in our case, we don't own any of the mobile homes. Our investment went
strictly into the infrastructure, the infrastructure to know what you're doing is furnishing
services to the people that own a mobile homes. Correct. Great. So we're, we've been
struggling to figure out is there a way whereby we could have the landowner somehow
pledged the land as collateral? We provide some form of indemnity because it's exactly

the situation.

33:06

That's that’s the is the answer. That is, that's a tough hurdle. Yeah. To get the landowner
to give up anything. All right, it is because as | said, | want | want to know that | worst
comes to worse, | own my land, | got a certain amount of rent. And they're not generally
builders or interested in your investment, they're in theory, all they're interested is getting
their rent for the land you're using. If they have to give something up, they don't like to
give something up. that's a that’s a very hard sell, unless they've got some some pickup on
the on the backside, where you say, Fine, so now | want you to diminish the value of your
land or pledges to make my financing easier, but I'm giving you a piece of the action, so
that you now have income, if I'm very successful, so you're gambling on the degree of
success, my degree of success and get you more income is equivalent to what you would
lose by by pledging that you may never be called to pay claims. And that has a value
because when you when they place their property, it's maybe in the future, it’s not current,
right. So that has a value. It was just a value. So | said, Well, yeah, if it happens, | got a bad
situation. But if it doesn't happen, | got a great situation. So they will be willing to gamble

depending upon what you put on the table.

34:39

Right, right. Okay, thank you. Let's go to let's go to sup. Hey, Victor. Hey, George, are you
jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

So what, what else we're going to talk about this one we're not going to sell.

09:03

What did you do in that instance? Did you sign right there? And then or did you wait 29
minutes?

09:07

No, they basically we signed right down in there. Guaranteed delivery but But meanwhile,
all of a sudden you say well, | kind of put on to 2 million. And not only got he wants a
down payment, you know, the whole bit all of a sudden your finger and | can | got time for
my steel and now all of a sudden you've been accelerated. But that was that was a market
at that time. Because that inflation in that | think was Brazil. That was 300% a year. Come
on 300%. He that was that was with what was driving the market at that time, which was
highly erratic. You don’t have it anywhere near and certainly in the United States. And |

don't think you have anything here in Canada.

09:49

Correct? Yeah, for the moment. We don't that's for sure. | mean, right now, interest rates,

for example, in Argentina, are 38%.

09:57

Yeah, the interest rates are not going to change dramatically. Understand this one thing
the bank have a pot full of money. Yeah. They've been they haven't made the investment
since they pulled it back. They stopped making mortgages and what they what they
they're getting, what they're paying out is very little to the investors and they want to,
they've got all this money they want to put it out. Well, you can't put it out at a high

interest rate if nobody's gonna pay the interest rate. So it’s highly competitive.

10:25

Right. Okay, well, let's go to some questions from from the group here. First, we've got
Michael Davidson, Michael.
JO

JO

jo

no? partnership? Is partnership going to be in rewriting? Yeah, of course, no, it’s in writing.
What is the what is the partnership say? Every good partnership. Every good partnership
agreement has what | call a divorce clause. And that's how do you get somebody out? If
they don't fit what they're supposed to be doing? And that's close. That's that's a legal
question. But that's very important. So now, you could say that somebody gave me
$50,000 as an investment, but now you're a pain in the ass good. I've agreed to buy you
out, I'll give you 60,000. But over a period two years, but that’s got to be in the
agreement. So it's whatever is whatever is written there. But main thing is don't let the
inmates run the asylum. You got to have somebody who makes the decisions with some
group that makes the decisions, and they are dictatorial. And they should be. Don't listen
to people who are not qualified, or have different mindsets or goals, then you might have
you may be thinking in a term of two years, and they're taking your permit of six months, |
don't know. So everybody has to be aligned and know what the project is and what the

product lead prospects are over the period of time. That's communication.

13:58

Great and give a personal example or personal story that you can share around when you

had to have want to use one of those divorce clauses? Sure. Absolutely.

14:10

I'll give you a perfect example. | had a | was in a partnership. And we were the three | was
one of four partners. And the other three partners decided they were going to do
something by themselves without putting bring bringing me into the deal, which was
against the partnership. So | said $5, I'm out of here. Now under the partnership
agreement, that this | had a capital account, which was fairly high. And if | continue to
practice law, they pay me out in 20 years and if | didn't practice law, they paid me out in
10. So the decision but exactly what was involved. The procedure was there but not the
dollar, the dollars. That was they didn't when we put the clause nobody knew how many
dollars is going to be involved. Because that depends on what the situation is at the time
that you make the break. But we had an agreement, so we knew exactly what it was. So
they knew they knew what they could expect from me. And | knew what | could expect for
them. And | go for the 10 years, and they pay me for the 10 years. That was the whole deal.

But that's awesome. Thank you example. Got Georgia

15:25

have got a related question to Michael's question, which is, let's say you put together a
JO

JO

JO

JO

06:19

That's what's been echoed some of the larger general contractors that we deal with have
echoed that sentiment, they've basically said Don’t overreact. At the same. And I'm fine
with that. On a personal level. The difficulty has been making a convincing argument for
lenders and investors.

06:39

| can understand that. But understand lenders, the lenders and investors don't like
problems. They don't like situations that come up. They're like it should be nice and easy.
And we just do it. This is what it was last month, this is what it was the month before is it.
And now you got to look, you got to a because of the COVID. And the the shortage of
supply and a built up demand, you have an artificial environment to design. And that tool
will disappear. | don't know when but it certainly will disappear. Things will things will
settle down. Because it's it's the lack of the supply, which is creating the problem. And the
reason they didn't like it splices Why should | be cutting lumber, if | can sell it to | won't
inventory. Now once you go the other way we're going to stock into it takes a while to get
the board feet you need. You can't start it up and say okay, I've got this not that they have
it on hand. It's just that they didn't have the extra that to take account of what the pent
up demand is going to be. It’s an artificial situation. I'm not minimizing it. But | don't think
you can really figure out exactly where it’s going. Right. All right. Understood, | think it'd be
a lot clearer is 30 in 60 days.

08:07

Although we're kind of getting into peak construction season as well. So Oh, that's

08:11

it the tape. Just Of course, the construction. Yeah. You know, that's what happens.
Anytime you build things can change. On the icon, | remember working on one that was
working for a client, and we were buying steel from South America. $2 million worth of
steel. The guy gave me a big he says it's good for 30 minutes. 30 minutes, but $2 million
worth of steel. Wow. But that's what it was at that point you did just that was that was the
market to the inflation was such that he wasn't going to talk wasn't going to say okay, he

unless you tied it up right away. You have a similar situation taking place now. short range.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

49:45

oh, that's fine. 30 days, essentially. But do you have the right to go elsewhere?

49:52

Of course we do. But | didn't want to put the earnest money deposit at risk. No, |

49:57

understand. But if you can show me Going on square this do they mind if you're talking to

other lenders at the same time?

50:06

Um, yeah, I'm sure they're fine with that.

50:09

| don't know that they're fine with that. But if you tell them, you're you're dealing with
other lenders, that that because it they're taking too long to make a decision. And if the
other lenders come through, you're going to take them. That'll Push Push the V Lexa, Bert
luxenberg was one way or another, you'll have to decide do | want to make a deal? Or
don't | want to make a deal? By the time | decide | want to make a deal? It may be gone.

Right. So you got to give them some competition. Okay.

50:42

Okay. So when you deal with a party that has been so, so much of a moving target within
a few short days, is that | mean, it raises red flags for me that is this someone | even want
as a financial partner? Correct? I'm wondering if that by itself already just disqualifies
them?

51:07

No, it probably it probably does. But what you have to do is you have to take control of
the situation and put a deadline on it, you say fine, here, and unless, right now we're

dealing This is March 24. If | don't have a definitive answers from you in writing by March
JO

JO

JO

JO

COVID under control, now's the time to go build. So they all want to want more product,
the same period of time. And just like a supply and demand, if you have a big demand,
you're going to get more bigger price. So my suggestion is is as far as people are
concerned, what's the rush to build wait around the month, and then you probably get a
lot better price.

02:22

We think the fluctuation will be short term, almost a month. So | would say no more than
60 days, that would be my guess.

02:29

Interesting. Interesting. | mean, certainly, if we look at, for example, through 2020. At this,
while this time last year, lumber prices were $264 per 1000 board feet. And then by the
middle of September, they were up at 985. And just between the first and second half of
September, they dropped by a third. Yeah. And then by November started to creep back
up and we're back up around $1,000 per 1000 board feet. And and it seems to be holding
there with futures contracts, extending well out into 2022, which is part of the reason why |

think we might be in for a little bit more of a protracted for

03:10

more of a look and say it's just it's it's more dollars to your project. But always inflationary
can usually get more for your product more for what you're building. | think what, what I'm
seeing basically is is this, you have a lot of pent up demand that all of a sudden,
everybody just like a turn on a faucet when you turn on a faucet, you get a lot of water on
one time, right. And that’s what | basically see. But it's you know, the cost of materials is
something you have to live with. So your profit margin may be slightly less. But

meanwhile, there's | think you're going to have pent up demand for the product.

03:54

One of the things that's driving that pent up demand is there's very little supply in the
market. So if you can look at inventory in most communities, inventories are almost, you

know, really historic lows. | know in
JO

JO

they figured out is a certain loan to value ratio. Depending on what you got, now, the
more you have signed up, that's, that's definitive. They like it. Yeah. Meanwhile, | have
commitments of 10 tenants or people buying condos what the more you have to sign they
like it. | see. All right, but but it depends on the individual lender and the person who
you're speaking to how qualified they are to make a decision from a business standpoint,
rather than from a banking standpoint. Now, very often, you can cover the gap, by giving
them some kind of insurance, was saying, sure, if you can get personal guarantees, for
example, you can put up an escrow fund, you can get some in some company that will
back the shortfall and pay for that. So they woke up to it, there are all kinds of different
solutions. But in order to tell you which one to take, | got to know what the problem is.
Yeah. And you don't know what the problem is until you sit down with a particular banker,
and they tell you what they want. And that doesn’t mean the childhood will hook or the
hole, because what happens is they'll go to a committee, and the committee omega
decides they like what we said or not, or said instead of getting, instead of making an
80% loan value, how about a 60% loan value? Well, that means | gotta get somewhere,
somewhere, somewhere to cover the 20% that the bank isn't happy with. Right and be

done.

22:23

So do you. So that kind of leads me to my follow up then. So when you're looking at
investors as bringing money partners in? Do you typically have the project first? And then

seek the funding? Or have the try to get your investors lined up? And then No,

22:39

no, no, that's it? No, | would say you did you get the investors lined up. If you tell them
what they're going to get. You know, is it suppose now that you look at it look and say, I'm
an investor, and you're looking it up for me to put up $100,000? Just to put up a number?
And | say, Good, what do | get? Well, | say if you put up $200,000, here, what do you got?
You're out in three years, and we're going to give you 18% a year growth. But we're not
going to pay it in cash, you're going to get it over a period of over the time, but at the end
of the time, you'll have it as if it was 18% ROI, right, like a balloon payment type. Now that
shows a check. But meanwhile, | don’t have anything well, good. When you have
something, let me know. Right now, when you have it, you now know what their appetite
is. And you have to figure out how to come up with a product. That's their appetite, right
now. So understand that investors come in order, some come in all different sizes and
shapes. Some are more just interested in return, others are interested in potential growth.

Some are looking for a short term deal, some are looking for a deal over a period of years.
JO

JO

So you can you basically can come up with a menu, which covers all of it. Now, you may
have an investor that says | want to 80% of your own money. Alright, but guaranteed, but
| know | can guarantee 8% What are your Meanwhile, how about the Will you take two
different types of investment? One, I'll put your first on the list, but you make 8% and the
next one you gamble and you make 18% if you want to gamble even more you make 25%.
So I've now got an ABC class, which one do you want to be in or combination? Hmm. So
figure out what what your investor wants them to what what what are the goals that the
investor has? Like they're looking to take a flyer or are they looking for something secure?
Are they making an investment on behalf of the family or long term? You have to know
the name of the investor and they come in all different sizes and shapes. And even among
the investors they chase chase different situations. Excellent, excellent advice. | mean, |
had for example, a situation where somebody had a piece of land And he wanted to sell
it, but the price was too high. So he said, okay, instead of selling it, how about a ground
lease? Alright, but give us a ground lease, you give us the benefit of that we'll make a
ground lease and attractive terms, but you also get a piece of the deal. Who, what we
built, so there's a combination for you secure, you're never gonna lose your land, but
you're part of the income you're looking for. It's not straight income, it’s income based on
the fact that there will be development of the property. That's great. Actually, we're
looking at something that has that type of potential. So let's that's good. Finally, | haven't |
had I've many times | find that the owner land is reluctant to deed the property. There's no
| want it’s been by family for years, or what have you. | don't like the idea. So yeah, we say
ground lease. Alright, so it’s a ground lease. But once again, ground lease that heard
terms that are unrealistic, to say, we'll make it more realistic, I'll give you a patient, I'll give
you a piece of the growth. So you can gamble with it. But you got you own your property.
But instead of making 10% a year, you make six, seven or 8% a year, but you got a piece
of the uptick when the property is successful. So you'll never lose your property. But you

made a little less than you thought you would make if it was just an outright lease.

26:21

Could you do a ground lease on part of a property if say we wanted to use property? Sure.
Yeah, we're looking at an agricultural society. That's absolutely, yeah, they might want to

keep some of it as their fairgrounds.

20:55

Once if you know, what your your the other side is looking for, you can come up with a
solution that works. I've had that on several occasions, where somebody owns 100 acres.

And they say good, they don't want to make a deal on 100 acres, make it on 70 acres, 60
Ollee

March 2021 - Mastermind with George
Ross (1)

q@ Thu, 9/94:38PM @ 53:30

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

lender, deal, land, pay, building, mobile homes, question, tax returns, property, partnership,

investors, loan, situation, george, investment, period, years, lumber, construction, problem

JO

JO

00:07

Okay, well welcome everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with George Ross.
Great to have you here again, George, let's dive right in, or blue. Green. So one of the
things that certainly making headlines, it's a topic of daily discussion with our lenders and
our investors, is that the inflationary environment that we seem to be entering, we
certainly seen it in construction pricing, lumber prices are almost 4x what they were at this
time last year. But it's not just lumber, it's it's all kinds of construction materials have gone
way up. And so it's really a question of how do we underwrite our projects, for pricing that
will last only 30 days before the start of construction. While you're still trying to get your
performance place, you're getting your lending in place, all the rest, and the ground is
shifting beneath your feet. You went through this in the 1980s, when we were in an
inflationary environment, how did you deal with then because you know, interest rates

were high, inflation was high.

01:16

Well, you got that. But then you've got this, | want you to think you're going through now
it's just | think this is pent up buying. That's what it is. There's so much that people weren't
building and weren't buying. So now all of a sudden, everybody is making demand that
they want product, and the prices can go up because the suppliers can get more, but |
don't anticipate that this will last that long. | think it'll, it'll settle down quite a bit. Now, if
you can lock it in and fine. But | think this is | think it's a blip. | don't think it's anything is
going to last for a long period of time. Because it wasn't that much construction going on.

They didn’t have the materials all of a sudden now everybody figures that they've got
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

guys doing? I'm doing good How you doing?

34:52

I'm good. | sent in a long question. | can summarize it if you want into like your sentence
summarize. So we're On a refinance of 94 houses with one lender, and 94,000. Yeah, so
they're

35:09

one of the 94 houses in a particular community are they spread out,

39:14

they're spread out. So they're not contiguous. And the lender is a commercial lender. So
the residential properties commercial loan, and they were going to do all of them, we got,
we got, like, 99.9% of the way up to closing, we were ready to close. And at the last
minute, they said, Hey, we're gonna need your tax returns. And I've done two loans with
this lender, they knew that | had file extensions, I'm expecting passive losses, and my CPA
is not going to get them done to the summer. And this is one of the reasons why | went
with this lender, instead of like a traditional bank. So they said, Well, we want to put the

loan on hold until your CPA is done with the taxes. We do that | have to

30:00

work, the taxes i they | did you get? How far are you in audit? How many years are open?

36:03

So from they want the 2018 and 2019. And those are the ones that are | have extensions
on. So they they said that if my CPA can get them a letter, stating that, based on the
review of the financials from SAP, you know, he's not expecting any losses, if he’s not
expecting any any taxes owed, then they will feel comfortable with that. But my CPA said,
| don't want to be liable for it until | actually go through everything. And he said just
they're just swamped right now with their other clients that they can’t get to my tax

returns till the summer. And this wasn’t an issue.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

10:38

Thanks, Victor. Hey, George, anywhere. Well, there he is. Alright, go ahead. Hey, how are
you doing, George? I'm good. Michael, how do | get my question is around. I'm wonderful.
I'm building a team to start doing land assemblies. And my question, I'm just starting to
gather criteria. Do you use no language building team and assemblies in land assemblies?
But in land assemblies?

11:11

Oh, land assemblies? Okay. Okay, because there are all kinds of assemblies. Go ahead.
You're building to God? Yeah.

11:19

So I'm curious, what criteria do you use to bring together a core partnership? Our core
team that's

11:29

easy. Depends what what are you looking for? And what can they add? If somebody can
only add money, don't expect expertise. If they have expertise, don't expect money. Those
everybody has something that they can deliver, that's a value. You have to accept what
value is it and attribute the value to that so that it fits into your pattern. But you can't it’s
not one size fits all. Those don't ask the money, man. Something that's not involved with
money, because all they know is money. Don't ask a builder or construction person about
financing. Unless they do find their financing. They're interested in construction, don't ask
an accountant for financial other than financial information. So it's having the right
people to ask to get the right answer, and then see how it fits into your total package of

personnel.

12:26

Great, and when it isn't a fit? How do you get them out without a dissolution of that

partnership? Do you admire samples or

12:34
JO

JO

JO

JO

acres at whatever it is, or that's what we've got part of the property which is which is
ready, perfect for commercial. So I'll make a separate deal on the part that's for the
commercial. And the rest of it, which is residential, or in keeping for land banking, we
make a different deal. No, it's a question of being creative. But finding out what it is that
the party the other side wants looking for. are looking for long term short term. Are you
looking for growth looking fliers is somebody want to use for investment for less? Yeah.
And the point that you make is a good one. All the land is not the same. If | got 100 acres,
| got 50 acres in the back that swamp land, and | got 10 acres in the front, which is
gorgeous. That's a different ballgame. Right? Maybe the same owner, but the use of the

property is entirely different. Yeah.

27:54

Yeah, that’s what we want. We want the frontage. We don't really care about the

backyard, they can keep that for there.

28:00

Yeah, cuz now Now the question is, how much do you want to pay for the front and leave
me with the garbage in the back? Well, they're using it for their fairgrounds. So they may
have a use for it. That's fine.

25:13

Yeah, for sure. That's all part of negotiation. Great. Well, that's great, because that's just

came up today. So kind of

28:21

just find out what they like. And you can figure out, it may be just how are you going to
subdivide it. And you can subdivide it in two different ways. You can subdivide it. Now you
can sub the timelines and say, Fine, let's do we have 100 acres, let's deal with the first 25
acres that | have an option on the other 75 for a right of first refusal, so if | got 25 acres
good, they know they got 25 acres sold at or under a deal they're happy with, and they
got 75 acres, they can do what they want with all but subject to your right of first refusal.
That's a great point. Yeah. So you maintain you're giving them the flexibility. And when do
you want the other land eventually to Yeah, and what you thought what you find is that if

there's a land owner, Jen and not a developer, they're not that savvy as to what to do.
JO

JO

partnership and you say, Okay, this new team member gets 25% equity just to pick a
number. Okay? Would you give them that 25% equity? Or would you make it vast over a

period of time subject to meeting certain performance milestones,

15:48

if you can do it Saturday go over a period of time meeting certain performance criteria?
Absolutely. You should only reward them for what they've done at the particular time. If
they had, if they perform more, give them more if they performed less, take it back. So
obviously, in many situations, if this were a partner gets bought out, not at 100 cents on
the dollar, he creates a problem that he wants out, or for some reason is being forced out,
maybe gets 80 cents on the dollar over a period of time. Nothing that would destroy the
partnerships, operations. Whoever is out be forced out or voluntarily out should not
disrupt the partnership long | shouldn't destroy the partnership, it only becomes an
inconvenience. And maybe as you get paid less amount, you get paid some interest,
whatever is that almost all spelled out any agreement. But the important. The The key
thing is you should have that provision, the divorce provision in the partnership agreement
at the inception of the partnership. There's nothing on the table at that time. Everybody's
happy. Yeah, we'll be partners, everything is going to work fine. Yeah, sure. We should.
Yeah. When there's money involved at that point, that’s not the time to start discussing
why you wonder what you want to do. Do it early. And there's no reason it can't be done
and be very effective. And there's nothing to say you can change it. To say at this point,
no, | know what we wrote. But we're you're down the pike and it didn't work out the way so
we got to we got to modify. | use a lot we taught you got to pay out in two years, but now
we have to pay out in three or five whatever is saying you can't do it, but you can't. But at
least you have a fallback position to know the minimum that you have to pay. What the
maximum whatever it is, depending on that's good. Good. draftsmanship very important
in any partnership arrangement. Perfect. and answer your question. Yes, yes. Okay. Next,
let's go to Alex Gordon. Hi, Victor. Hi, George. Hi, Gordon.

18:15

| know I'm the third member of the Hamilton group. So we had a question. We're looking
at doing some when you say the third member who is the Hamilton group? Yeah. So we've
had questions in the past. We've kind of alternate through pretty deep. And Chris
Dimitrov. We're all working together in in the Hamilton Ontario area. Good. Oh, well, we're
all on the calls, but we just kind of split the questions. Okay, as we go. Yeah. So | haven't
asked you a question yet. This will be my first song. So we're looking at potentially buying

underutilized strip plazas for redevelopment, potential Legionella void, but we should
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

04:06

my book, news, you got to go back up the ladder, back up the ladder. So you get the one
that's selling it to the consumer can only get it from from the wholesaler, the supplier, the
wholesale supplier could only get it for the manufacturer, the one or the one is cutting

limit, they will start right. So now it's like you start looking, we always start you have to fill
in the backlog. And that depends on the suppliers and needs. | think most of the suppliers
that have been flying and building materials, they're up to the IRS now and trying to fill in

the back waters. But it'll take a while until it filters down.

04:47

Right and | guess the the price that you get at the back end when your project is complete
is also a function of supply and demand and there's very little supply there as well. Exactly
right.

05:00

So | think what will happen is that this, it'll it'll disappear, not disappear. But it'll be
absorbed. So what will happen? And what's going on what what you're indicating is
occurring and it's a it’s not it’s true is everybody else that's want to build got the same
problem. So if they got the same problem, their prices are going to go higher, will their
prices go higher than then people are going to have to pay more if they want to move in?
And | think they will. You're gonna have to live in it's not. So it's so dramatic. If you figure
out what the cost is a lumbering your total, your total cost for the job? It can't be a huge,

huge number, correct?

05:41

Yeah, absolutely. | mean, normally, your lumber cost, your framing cost might be between
15 and 17% of a project. If the materials double, maybe it's a seven 8% impact on the total

cost of construction.

05:55

Maybe, maybe, maybe that's a, | don't think it's that high. But you know, it’s a, it's where
you're building what you're building and what's available. | think your shop around you'll
find this available, especially if you can pull it off to purchase. If you don't need immediate

delivery, but you can wait a month or so you get a better price.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

44:13

yeah, their focus is doing a lot of venture capitalists do it every day. Okay, they cover the
gaps wherever they may be. Now, they may require security different than what the bank
would require, but that's fine.

44:33

Yeah, | could, | could see that as being a solution even for some acquisitions to like there's
that that's that's a very powerful Swiss Army knife, just as far as the the capabilities. Okay,
yeah, well, I've got some homework to do. And | got a call from an attorney while we were
on this mastermind call, so | haven't had a chance to be with my counsel, but I've

definitely been these ideas.

44:54

That That said, there are lots of areas to call it to cover and lots of possibilities. There. fact
that you're dealing with multiple properties is in is a big advantage. Because they're not,
everything's not going to go bad at one time. They're spread out. So that’s an that's an
advantage. Okay, great. Okay, thank you, George. Yeah. Appreciate it. Good. Good luck.

45:29

That was a very good question. That was a great answer to George,

45:32

is a great, great, great answer. But the problem. The basic problem is, where's the banker?
What do you want? What do you want? What do you expect to see on my tax return? I'd
like to hear the answer. With tax returns, you think I'm going to be audited and not
audited the taxes? This is? what's what's the difference going to be? What's the exposure?
Not once you pin down the exposure and say, Well, yeah, if it if you're, the audit shows
that you owe a million dollars will be then if that million dollars get paid, we're happy. So
all you have to do is cover the million. If it happens, and in do it, you can do that in a

number of ways. Because it's it's all soeculation there's probably never happened.

46:26
JO

JO

Yeah, and I'd be willing to pay that.

46:30

The problem we are dealing with the with it with the Internal Revenue, or is this it’s highly
negotiable. News, I've I've had situations where Yep, they do they think they want one
municipality said, Oh, yeah, you will. One year, your $400,000? And | said, No, no, no, this
is a they came up with a whole basis as to how over $400,000 The end result is | say, Hey,
here's $100,000 Get lost. They took it. Because they know they had a they had a tough
fight to win. And | was concerned to get it off my head and | have to pay legal fees to
save the money. So it's Can you make settlements without with the government? Yes.
Absolutely. And they're happy to make because it looks good on their record, anyway.
Yeah, | got money from this guy. So it wasn't the fact that so they told you, meanwhile,
you're probably under audit. Yeah. And so it depends on who the who's who takes the
audit. It's, it’s, so it's something that's you can't put your fingers on now. And if you can't do
it, they can't do it at all until such time as you're sitting down, and that you may help me
make some offer a day make some offer. Usually, they're not planning on going to the
court or the end result. They want to get rid of it. And the same thing, you want to get rid
of it because it's hanging over your head and why quite the aggravation and also legal
fees. So is there room for settlement and what will undoubtedly happen. Now, I've had
many I've had situations where Yeah, | was underwater, but the end result is | paid nothing.

| didn't agree with it, and they finally waived it. Okay, Okay, next.

48:40

Okay. Next, George, we have a situation where we had a land deal for development of an
apartment complex that fell out of contract. This came unraveled in the past week. And
we've been negotiating with a fund that's based in Luxembourg, to come in as our funding
partner, they were going to write a single check. We were about a week out from having
our earnest money deposit going hard. And they said that they were going to need an
additional 30 days. So | went back to the seller and negotiated a 30 day extension. And
today's letter, they later they came back and said well, not only do we need 30 days of
additional conditional period, we need another 30 days on top of that added to the
closing period, so | went and gotten that for them as well. So now I've got 230 day
extensions in less than a week. And then they came back a day later and said that they
probably needed even more time, right there, well, blah, blah, blah or process. We're just

not that fast. We're, | don't know, we're European, whatever, you know,
JO

JO

JO

JO

41:38

Which | have to say the Bank of good assume now. My tax returns don't meet the criteria
you want. Now, how much do you want from me to cover that gap? Not that you keep it?
It's just security. Okay, okay, get the number. Now. You can, what you can do is if you are
you don't want to cover that number yourself or you don't think you can cover the number
you can get companies that do that will guarantee you Why would they guarantee

because then they never figured you're gonna pay it out.

42:18

| don't even know that existed. You're saying there's insurance for that.

42:23

Car shortfalls. And weather because they do figure it's never going to happen. Because
the shortfall is contingent on something occurring, and they don't think it's going to
happen. So they cover it. But most of the times, all they do is they guarantee but they
never pay because the shortfall never happened. That's fascinating about as many houses
as you're a goblin, it is a tremendous amount of flexibility there. So 10 houses are sold for
less but 10 houses sold for more? How much more were are there? So there's flexibility
there? It's not? It's not one item that's going to go totally bad. Hmm. There's not like one
project or one building that didn’t make it you got all these, some of them will be fine.
You're in good areas, some won't. Some of them will take can be done in a month,
someone takes three months. That's all part of it. So yeah, it's a good, it should be a good
loan for them. But the problem that you have is bankers are not business people. And
what you have to do it, how did they get repaid? Now you're back to the same point,
assume your tax returns Come on our show will show exactly what they want. How does
like prove you're going to get the money? Well, this isn't. Yeah, this is this is the last two
years this is what it was. You want to pay? | don't know why they're concerned as much

with your tax returns if you're not giving them personal indemnities. Right. Is that fair?

44:04

Indeed, that insurance solution that you mentioned, is that a particular type of insurance
just so | can write that down? Or what what the research like other brokers that specialize
in that,
