www we we te ~w ewe

Okay. Yeah, so, um, a couple of meetings that I've had recently with potential investors, one, one was with my 1031
exchange agent, and | was telling her what we were doing with our new company, and she said, Do you ever do
anything with Delaware statutory trust? And she said, If you do, | think | can get you some investors. So that's one
piece of the question. And related to

Russ 32:24

like, what is a Delaware statutory trust? Is that part of the question

Scott Florida 32:28

so much? | mean, | got | think it was Paul Moore that you hit on. Yep. And so | read his report, and | probably need to
follow up with him. But yeah, the questions that I'm rolling through my mind is, is that a completely package
syndication? So I'm not sure if that's a question for sales, or if it needs to go to Mauricio or whatever. But the Can you
do a Delaware statutory trust as a part of a syndication? In other words, can that Delaware statutory Trust Fund, like
partially fund the syndication? Or does that have to be a completely separate model?

Russ 33:05

So that's more Yeah, that's more of a structure is probably going to be a two part thing. So it’s not a sales thing?
That's for sure. You can take it up with Mike pine, | think I'm going to be recording here with him soon. But if not, or
you know, your own CPA, but you're going to have to get somebody who understand my CPA. How easy is that? So
then, so then, you know, have him look into it. If he’s not familiar with Paul, he can connect with Paul Paul's, like one
of the nicest men ever. So he would probably happily share from his experience, he might even be willing to consult
with you. So that would be an option, he’s probably solved a lot of those problems. And so it's going to be both a tax
question and a legal question. So Mauricio, and Mike, and then probably somebody who's already been through the
jungle before your Safari guide. And Paul, | think if you were able to get the three of them on the phone and just

bang it out, even if he had to pay, which you probably should, | think that'd be be worth it. The rest of it, once you
once you understand that, that's kind of mapping out what you can do, and then you out of that you should come up
with your features. And then now it becomes a sales issue, because it's like, okay, now that | understand what this
thing is capable of doing. The next question is, is, who is it capable of doing it for? And then how do | find those
people and present it to them in such a way that they understand the benefit to them? Not what it does, but what it
does for them, not how it does what it does, but the actual benefit they receive? You know, when when that thing is
done when it's set up? Okay, okay.

&) Scott Florida 34:50

Yeah, that's great. That's big help. Alright, perfect. And next part of the question is related to so | guess I'm working
on a single family portfolio, Central Florida working with Jeanne and Wagner and my meeting Monday was with
potential investor and talking about the thing that seemed to light them up the most was the tax potential tax
benefits. And | did have a conversation with Mike about that and talking about, you know, what we the, you know,
the passive losses that we would pick up in that particular scenario. So | just was looking for some feedback on okay,
how do you move into that tax discussion? That's not one, | have a ton of experience. And so how do you go about
setting up your features and benefits and getting clear on those things? So that you can sell that piece of it? In
particular, like their investors in Airbnb? And so they have some of their own personal Aironb? And so the there's a,
how can | be a potentially better asset for them in with the tax benefits that | can produce through a syndication?
© Russ 51:06

Yeah. So Robert, and | make it a point of getting together with people live, and having as many interactive
conversations as possible, because that's how we learn our audience. It's how we learn what to talk about on the
show. It's how we learn what to talk about from the front of the room. And it's how we really understand the needs,
wants, desires, goals and objectives, the audience that we're purporting to serve. So that's important. And in this
business, in the syndication business, the single most important thing you do every single week, is have interactive
dialogue with individual investors, there is not a single thing you do, that's more important than that. So if you do
that, and you do it consistently, it becomes a steady part, it doesn't have to be a lot, we did real well. And all | did
was every Tuesday afternoon, did a one o'clock a 230, a four o'clock and a 530. And | allowed an hour and | talked to
four investors a week. But they were well qualified, they would have had taken 14 hours of classes, they prepared a
financial profile before they came in, and then they would come sit with me. And we would talk about their goals or
objectives or personal situation, | would share ideas and information with them. And then I'd write what | called
prescriptions, which is where | would encourage them to go talk with a CPA or a lawyer or a mortgage professional
or whoever, to try to take an either clarify some of the things that | knew to be true, but | couldn't give them
professional advice. So | said, Look, | can’t tell you this is the way it is. But it's my understanding, it's the way it is. But
here's the exact question, you can go ask your CPA. And if they tell you it’s true, then then it's true. But | learned a lot.
| did that for many years, and probably four or 500. You know, in a few years, you know, maybe more than that, what
for a week times 50 is 200 a year, | did it for four or five years. So probably 800, maybe 1000. You don't need that
many investors to build a big business. They said you have to be talking to the right people. But if you're if you put off
getting into those conversations, and you're not having them to Stacey's point, you never really learned your avatar.
If you think your conversations are about talking to people, instead of talking with people, and even more listening,
really, you're in the conversation to ask questions and draw them out, you make comments to kind of fuel the
conversation, and then you let them let them talk. And then keeping good detailed notes so that when you come
back, you can pick right up where you left off. And you're profiling them. So that you can come at them with things
that are most likely to meet their needs and be within their capability. And then as you learn at some point, you may
decide, hey, I've got a group of people that have a bleeding neck what Perry Marshall calls a bleeding neck, a
burning need going on Matt, if | can find a deal that will scratch that itch to mix metaphors, then, then I've really got
an opportunity because these people are hungry for it. And so your deal philosophy may may switch to cater to the
people that you've bonded with. Because at the end of the day, your syndication business isn't a string of deals. It’s a
database full of happy investors that roll with you from deal to deal to deal to deal and the more focused you are on
using your deals to meet their needs instead of vice versa, which is the way a lot of syndicators approach this
business, but you're using your deals to meet their needs, not vice versa. Then you'll build that you'll build that big
loyal database of people who will trust you and their money will follow you into different deals. As you you know, are
diligent about executing and keeping your promises and communicating clearly when things go sideways because

they will. Okay, good. Anything else says?

G) Staci Gray 55:14

Yeah, one other thing. | think I'm in those conversations maintaining like it being a needs analysis being very curious.
Instead of prejudging, either prejudging positively or prejudging negatively, like making the assumption that they're
definitely going to do it with you, then you don't maintain your sales role, you're like, you just make the assumption
that it's it’s a lay down, it's a close, so you actually don't sell the way you should, or you don't actually do a thorough
needs analysis, or you prejudge the opposite. This person isn't going to buy, they're being too critical. They're asking
too many questions, which actually could be a stronger indication that they would buy. So making sure that you
actually do the practice of sales, regardless of what your preconceived notions of the person that you're talking to is.
Yep,
Russ 56:09

that is great advice. Okay, so we're at the top of the hour, | think I'm going to call a lid on it as they say. So | think
we've had a good hour together really appreciate the participation. And like | said, Just get out there and just
continue to engage sales is an art, and you will learn how to get good at it by doing it. And when you have the
inevitable. Foot and Mouth Disease, when you get deer in the headlights, you're in a conversation, you either say the
wrong thing, or can't think of anything to say, That's okay. Or somebody catches you flat footed, and you realize that
you, you know, maybe don't know enough about what you're doing. Don't feel badly about yourself, when that
happens, that's part of the process, there's no way to get to level three, which is being competent with effort until you
go through level two, which is being consciously incompetent. So you just going to have to go through that if you're
not if you haven't already been there. But if you will persist, you'll eventually get to the point where you have the
techniques down, you really kind of instinctively do things more right than wrong. And you'll be producing
consistently good results. And you'll feel professional, you won't be intimidated about engaging, even very high net
worth highly intelligent, highly sophisticated people, you won't be afraid of those conversations, because you'll know
how to handle them. But there’s no way to get there by studying you have to get there by practicing. It's an art form,
it takes practice. And so learn the good techniques and continue to work on and and then just make sure that you
know, whatever you're doing is that it's not a successful week in this business unless you've had some meaningful
conversations with real world, potential investors people have means doesn't mean they're interested in your deal
doesn't mean that you have a deal doesn't mean that they know you're talking to them about investing, or that you
even talked about investing, although hopefully it'll turn out the way. But if you're not having meaningful
conversations with a variety of people every single week, then you're falling behind. That's what this business is all
about. So definitely want to make sure you're doing that if you're not doing that and force yourself out of your
comfort zone to make it happen. And and so hopefully we'll see you all at the secrets of successful syndication
coming out, as you know, we sold out, then we unsold out and | think we're probably really close to selling out again,
depending on if the hotel can rearrange things to give us a little bit more capacity, but we're well over 250. And
considering there's still a bunch of people out there who don't feel comfortable traveling, | think we're doing pretty
darn good. It's going to be a dynamic, exciting event. And so looking forward to doing that. So we'll call that a wrap.
appreciate everybody. You guys all have a super day. And thanks for being a part of this. These calls are no fun

without you. All right.

Scott Florida 59:00
Thank you

Russ 59:01
guys. Thank you.

Scott Florida 59:02
Appreciate you guys.
decision makers, especially if it's labor that I'm taking out. That is, you know, not not taken somebody's job. And | was
just kind of, you know, biting at the edges because it was minor amounts of labor savings, | needed to justify 10 cents
or 20 cents extra on a product. | just needed to change the paradigm. Obviously medical care, health care, quality of
life, how long someone lives, how much pain they're in or not in, right. So you're going to have to determine Straight
to somebody, there are many people who are completely ignorant and naive of the benefits of good nutrition. The
pharmaceutical industry makes a zillion dollars catering to people who are completely ignorant, naive, and a lot of

them end up in places like that. Because of that,

Susan Horst 20:17
don't get me started. Yeah, yeah,

Russ 20:19

well, | mean, I'm, you know, I'm | went through what | went through with my wife, but even prior to that, I've always
been attentive to, you know, diet and what | put in my body, even more so after watching what my wife went
through, right. So, you know, it could be you could, you could backdoor some of it. But you know, if you're in a
conversation with somebody, you know, what you're trying to do is you're trying to explain to them that your mission,
if in fact cost is part of their criteria is to is to find a way to deliver them a better quality of service, right, and save
the money in their overall experience of caring for their loved one. Right? Okay. And so you're not saying I'm going to
lower my price, I'm going to lower the overall price, right. And then you have to start to ask questions about where
else they're spending money related to care, which would be in the health care, which would be and, you know, and
then the other part of it is talking about the quality of life that the person is having. So, you know, in the market
research part of it, that is, to me, maybe going to be more difficult, right. But, you know, if | was sitting at the point of
sale, trying to make the case, why I'm, you know, two or three or 4%, more expensive, whatever the number is, and |
have done the math to figure out that this type of diet, and | have the science to prove it, or at least the medical
opinions, or, or, you know, medical testimonials, to suggest that reducing the amount of toxins in the diet, increasing
the amount of fiber, decreasing the opportunities for, you know, pathogens to get involved in food, whatever, and I’m
just, you know, I'm | know a little bit on, I'm just kind of guessing what some of the benefits are, but but you would
have to take what all those things are, whatever the benefits are, and begin to attach to them, the financial value of
have how that relates. In other words, you know, if you have to call the doctor once a year, instead of once a month,
if you you know, you get the idea. So I've kind of went off on that a little bit because a we didn't have a lot of pre
submitted questions be we don't have a lot of people on the call, but see, and which is probably a is | think that
learning how to master the art of selling value. And not trying to compete solely on price and understanding the very,
very important difference between features and benefits and how to use them. super important. As far as trying to
figure out where am | going to find the people to talk to | think the obvious place to find them is where they already
are, where they places they already are. So you know the the with the with the slide and secrets of successful
syndication Who is your target market? Okay. It's it's people in care homes are people needing care home. So where
do they congregate care homes, but they might also congregate with doctors. Right? So you know, you may be able
to find some doctors, or some way, you may be able to subscribe. Like many years ago, | had this notion of actually
the foundation of what became our investor mentoring club, but | had the idea to create these financial mentoring
clubs, and | wanted to build them around the most respected financial professionals. And so when | looked around,
and | made a list of all the different financial professionals that were out there, the ones that had the best
professional reputation were CPAs. So | said, Well, | gotta go recruit some CPAs. And to do that, | need to understand
my avatar. | don’t know anything about CPA, I'm not a CPA, | probably would never make a very good CPA. So | just
began to subscribe to CPA publications. And | would read, and | would read what their leadership were telling them,
the issues of the day were what they were dealing with, and you'd read the especially if you could go to where there
wads an open mic or open q&a or letters to the editor, you begin to understand your avatar. So medical professionals
that deal with the elderly placement services, that deal with the elderly, existing homes, obviously, in jeans program,
So it’s a group of people that decide, we want a big beautiful piece of property, but we can't afford it. We just want a
reasonable cottagey kind of house. And we'll all go in on it together. But we need a developer to do it for us to get
mortgages, but we need a developer. And there's a version of that that’s senior cohousing. And | was just talking with
a person about that yesterday. And there's a whole book about it. Yeah. That seems like the third model. | don't know
if it works everywhere. But it definitely works in a place like Pacific Northwest. Well, just

© Russ 28:16

don't call it a commune call it a compound compound.

@) Susan Horst 28:21

Yeah. So I'm just being tongue in cheek. They don't call it communes, either. But But those seem like the the three
avenues to explore.

© Russ 28:33

Yeah, well, and you probably build a farm around all of them.

) Staci Gray 28:37

Yeah, yeah. It's kind of similar to what Jeremy did with his. It's not a farm. Well, it is a farm but he, he did rodeo. And
so he rode horses, and a lot of people don't have the ability to have their horses on their own property. So he built |
don't know how many home 50 homes, but if he’s watching this, I'm probably getting it all wrong. But this is the
concept like 50 homes, and then a farm. So a barn on it. So all people could have their horses but they've shared it.
They shared the barn in the arena and all of the farm barn hands and everything,

© Russ 29:14

like a community tool in it, you know, yeah, she was a little girl. We belonged in a community and none of you know,
we've never had a pool. We didn't even we had a community pool.

© Staci Gray 29:23

Right? Yeah. So like a community farm that then you can then sell your farm through to assisted living home. So
maybe your own Some may be others. Yep. Yeah. Okay, got it. So go ahead.

() Susan Horst 29:36

Um, the other way of thinking about this, um, you know, in the peak prosperity world, there’s a whole bunch of
people that want to do the homestead thing. They're afraid of collapse or whatever little piece of paradise. You could
think of this as the homestead thing, but you're not running the homestead. You're just living nearby. It And some
young energetic couple are running your homestead. You just get to eat their food.
() Susan Horst 14:55

Oh, it makes perfect sense. Um, no. Yeah, | don't want to, | don’t want to muddy the waters. But my, my concern is
that | can get this information. And then | will end up with Okay, | can deliver the benefit that you're looking for
daughter, Judy, for your your mother. And, and | can describe it well, but then | will end up with, you know, a product
that daughter Judy's not willing to pay for for her mother. So

Russ 15:35

that's a different discussion, that's a different discussion, because that's a discussion of value. Right? Right. It's there's
no such thing as price. There's only value. Price is a component of value, as are the benefits, right? And so

somewhere there is a intersection of what someone is willing to pay and what they want. And that's where they
recognize the value, right? So an amateur, a weak salesperson, will just lower the price to try to find that value
proposition and professional will build the value.

Susan Horst 16:13

Okay, well lay down the gauntlet for me, Russell. So | don't feel wheat salesperson.

Russ 16:21

Well, most most people are and it’s just because they haven't been properly trained in the easiest thing in the world
to do is just drop the price. But you know, you never want to be in a price war, you never want to be the person who
advertises or promotes being a low cost leader, when Jean does his training. In the space, he talks about the sweet
spot, right. And that sweet spot is, is where there’s margin where there's opportunity. And there's still also volume,
right, you go too high up, there’s not enough people, and you go too far down, there's not enough profit. So there's
the sweet spot. And so you're you're always going to be looking for that. But the way you build the value is you have
to understand the total value of the benefit, I'll use kind of the way | learned it, and then just you know, maybe it's a
good example, maybe it's not, but it’s the way | learned it. And how | learned to develop it, | started out my sales
career in the office products business. And Office products are basically the groceries of industry, their commodities.
And so it's often you know, a pencil is a pencil is staplers, a stapler, you know, pad of papers, a pad of paper,
whatever it is, and there’s 1000 vendors out there all selling it, and everybody to establish value is just dropping the
price, dropping the price, dropping the price. And so you have to continually look for ways to to be to innovate and
be efficient, find a way to lower your cost to do so you can offer a lower price, at some point, everybody is super
efficient. And now somebody's got to step into the marketplace and actually provide value. And so what | learned to
do, and | ended up having some of the highest margins in the business was | stepped outside the price of the
product. And | looked at the experience of the product. And | would ask my customers to explain to me their process.
And the process was from the time that they're, you know, $120,000, a year engineer in Silicon Valley, decided they
needed a mechanical pencil. And in a pad of paper, what was the process? And they would describe it to me and |
would break it down. And you know, what | showed them is that they were wasting so much time in labor. They were
wasting so much time because their distribution to get the product. But by the time that person said oh, | want this
and they fiddled around with a catalog and then they placed the order and then it went to purchasing and then bla
bla bla bla bla. And then it went to receive, they probably spent $400 in labor for $2 item. And they're trying to figure
out how to cut my price by 20 cents, which is 10% margin. | said, | think we're majoring in the minors. Let's talk about
getting that product to you quicker and saving what really matters. Okay, so the point is you have to understand
what the components of costs were. And | learned that by looking at these companies reports, and | could see Wow,

they're spending a lot of money on labor. If | can cut labor, if | can go after Labor, that's going to resonate with
suggested, you know, cooking classes and demos and meals? What might be a good offering, like you'll get all the
seniors to show up? And then you can, you know, do your market research on the spot. So that’s one example that
has come in since | submitted that question. And of course, I'm eager to meet low Hornbuckle and, you know, get his
ideas. But I'm also worried about the COVID restrictions on how | can do market research. So if if either of the two

Gray's, or anybody else on the call has some suggestions for market research, |'m all yours.

Russ 04:07

Okay, well, let's take a shot at it. So in secrets of successful syndication in the build your brand, build your network
module, | have two slides that | go off on, and | tell everybody with as much energy as | can muster, in the moment
that they're the two most important slides. And one of them is got a picture of a target on it. And it talks about the
idea of who is your target market? What do they need? Where do they congregate, who influences them? What are
the influencers need? Where do they congregate? And then kind of what's your angle? How can you get into a
relationship with influencers? So some of that applies here. So starting up at the top of the food chain, and you're
instinctively doing a lot of things right. So congratulations, you have a thesis, and your thesis is hey, this is what |
want to do. And that's great because you're interested is telling you there’s an unmet need in the marketplace. The
caution that | would have for anybody is not to so fall so far in love with whatever it is you think you want to do that
you don't listen to the marketplace or you don't even bother to check with it. Now, | already get the sense you're
doing that. But Robert and | had an occasion many years ago to go to a conference and Irving Johnson Magic
Johnson of basketball, fame, billionaire real estate or billionaire investor. | think he's a billionaire. If he’s not, he’s
pretty close. He's right up there with Michael Jordan. He's done done really well for himself. Anyway, his talk was
about how he had opened up a sporting goods store. And he opened it up to great fanfare and degrade investment
and it collapse it fell on its face. And when he finally conceded that he needed help, and he went and asked for help
the consultant he brought in asked him, Well, where'd How did you decide what your product line would be? He goes,
Well, | chose at all. And they said, Well, | don't know, you know, magic, Mr. Johnson. But the last time that you may
have looked around, there aren't that many people in the world like you. In other words, you built the store to satisfy
what you want to buy, but not what the customers want to buy. And the big lesson was there that it always starts
with what the marketplace wants. That's the kind of the story. So it's great that your instinct, | mean, | don’t say you
ignore, you know, you've got your gut is telling you, hey, there's there's a thing here. So you have to go check that out.
So the first thing | would do is, is even though I'm extremely proud of myself, that | came up with this innovative idea,
and I've never seen it anywhere, the first thing | want to do is go see how many other brilliant people out there like
me have already figured it out and are already doing it. And so you can learn a lot from that. So step one is just go
look for other people that are doing it, and then take a look at how they're doing how well they're doing it. And if the
market is proven by them doing it, and you can find a way to take whatever they're doing and make it a little bit
better or bring it to a marketplace where it isn't, then you have some opportunity and you you can learn from them,
you can learn from their lessons. Now, sometimes you will find out, dang, nobody's doing this. Okay, well, then it
could either be, you know, you could draw the conclusion why it's a completely dumb idea. Or, I'm ahead of my time
on cutting edge. So | wouldn't give up. But | would | would be a little bit more cautious. And again, this is about
syndication. At some point, you're going to have to sit in front of investors, and you're going to have to make the
case, hey, I've done my homework. This isn't just some fantasy | want you to find because | want to do it. But it there's
really something out in the marketplace, an unmet need that we can capitalize on. And you know, if you look at a

guy like Steve Jobs, who did not let the fact that nobody was doing what he wanted to go do stop him, he made the
market. One thing that he did have was an innate and very focused understanding of his avatar and what they
would want if they were shown it. And so that comes to where you said you were at, which is that you were going out
talking to folks asking them very specifically about it. There's another step in between, which is is talking to people
who are already in kind of the camp, right? People, the decision makers, if you're going to gene Marino's training, and
I'm sure you have where you know they talk about the daughter, Judy, | think it's Judy. And she she's the decision
maker even though you know, mom or dad is the one going into the home. It's the it’s the it’s the alpha daughter,
typically, that is making the decision on behalf Stacy's over there smiling because she’s the Alpha Dog. Sorry, I'm on
gallery mode, so | could see everybody's face. But anyway, so the thing is, the question that you ask of the decision
Russ 36:06

Okay, so two different things there. And it's just like we talked about with Susan, you need to understand how to
bring things to the table. So in other words, you have to start from the other person's perspective. So let's look at the
deal. So you look at the deal, and the deal has tax benefits. So you have to understand what all those tax benefits
are. And then the next question you have to ask the CPA is, who qualifies for those tax benefits? What's the avatar?
Or the profile of the people who can take advantage of these tax benefits? Are these eligible? Or it? Can anybody
have it? Can somebody who only has passive income habit? Can somebody who has active income? Can somebody
who's self employed or w two, right? Who who's eligible? And more importantly, who's not? And are there any
restrictions or limitations, you know, if they make this much, or they have this much, or whatever, you just have to
understand, now you have defined the box. And either your prospects that you're talking to are going to fit in the box,
or they're not. So now when you're talking to people, and you're talking about how deals could be structured,
generically, Mr. Florida, | understand you're looking to play some money as you probably no deals can be structured
in a variety of different ways. And the purpose of the deal is to solve a financial problem you have or take you to a
financial destination you want to go to so if you could describe what you're trying to accomplish with your portfolio
right now, maybe how's your portfolio performing on a scale of one to 10? And he'll tell you, and then same thing is
like, what do you like best? What's working? He'll tell you? What's missing? I'm getting killed on taxes. Okay, now you
now you can narrow down since you know, and we're assuming if he doesn't say that, then maybe he's not aware. If
he didn't mention that he was mentioned taxes at all, you might notice that you didn't say anything about taxes?
How do you feel about your tax, Id notice a word, how do you feel? Because you're when you're doing a needs
analysis, you're talking to the heart. If he’s upset, if he’s pissed, if he’s frustrated, now you got something to work with?
He's like, Oh, my tax situation is great. | got the greatest CPA ever, really? And then you might you might say, Well,
what makes it so great? Well, | only paid 20%. And | used to pay 40? Wow. Well, you know, some people would think
20% said, Great. Let me ask you this question. This is where you the hypothetical, if there were a way and I'm not
saying there is, but if there were a way for you to reduce that to 10% or even 5%? Is that something you'd be
interested in? That's a trial close, hypothetical close? He says yes, but | don't think that's possible, | understand that it
may not be possible. But if it were possible, is there any reason you wouldn't be interested, because | might have a
deal that could do that. Or | might have a CPA to help you do that. Or | think, you know, I, | know two or three
different investors that | have personal relationships with. They've told me that they're paying no tax. And so if | can
go work with them, and figure out how they're doing it and bring you a deal that can help you do that, too. Is there
any reason you can think of you wouldn't be interested in looking at that? Well, no, I'd love to see that. Now I'm
getting energy, right? See, that's all the technique that's the technique is always the same, right? I'm gonna identify
what they like, I'm gonna identify what's missing greed and fear. You know what they want, what they don't have.
Okay, then I've got a test. We've got to try to quantify it. So | understand | really understand if | don't get what | want.
I've got to throw it in the mix and see how they react to it. And so | kind of did that. With you know, how do you feel?
But your tax situation? Tell me, then it'll tell me, then I'm also trying to warm up, how did they feel about their tax
advisor who is either potential ally or potential threat? Right, if it's a potential threat, I'm going to try to move in
towards my guy, if he’s a potential ally, I'm going to build him up and try to work a great relationship and work
through to get to all the referrals that are on the other side of that relationship, even though | never take my eye off
the main thing, which is, you know, the deal at hand and the person I'm dealing with, but I'm, but I'm working through
all of that. So anyway, once you have that, and you're in a conversation, and you say, Well, you know, I, I've got a
deal right now, that provides some really powerful tax benefits for the right people. | don't want to be too intrusive.
But, you know, | can ask you a few questions tell you a little bit about the type of person, the deal would be perfect
for, according to my CPA, because I'm not a tax advisor, you always have to be careful that you're not giving tax or
legal advice when you're talking about things like tax and asset protection and things like that. But then you did. But
then you begin to say, Well, you know, so So this particular deal provides outstanding tax benefits for people that fit
in this box, and you label a couple, not all of it, just a couple. And even though you're not asking them about their
situation, have you ever seen Tom Hopkins card trick? Okay, someday, and hopefully, maybe if you're on the summit,
he'll he'll do the card trick. But But if you can find it online, you know, find Tom Hopkins card trick. And basically, he'll
tell you to take a deck of cards, look at the card, memorize the card, hide the card, and then he'll ask you a series of
questions. Or actually, no, the way he does it, I'm sorry, | screwed that up. The way he does it, is he'll look at the card.
And then he'll help you guess the card. That's the way it works. Okay. And he leads you through a series of questions
to take you to where he wants you to go. But the point is, is that when you say to him, you know, well, it’s ideal for
somebody who's self employed. And they're going to say, either that they are or they're not employed, or that they,
they're a W two, you're going to learn, they haven't told you because you ask them directly. But they're clarifying for
you, as you're trying to see if they fit in your box, you see what I'm saying? Okay, and then you're just going to learn,
and it whatever point it disqualifies them, you're going to have to say, well, doesn't look like this particular deal is
going to get the job done. But let me ask you this, if | were able to find a deal that fit someone in your, in your
situation, that could reduce your taxes, is there any reason you wouldn't be interested? And if he says, Yeah, no,
that'd be great. Well, let me ask you a few more questions about your situation. So | can be a little bit more targeted,
and then you earn the right to ask a few more questions. And then you just have to use your your judgment. And |
had a trainer Tell me once that you have to imagine that the person in front of us got this thin veil of cellophane, you
can see them and they can see you but you're pushing on, if you push too hard, and it breaks, you're gonna punch
him in the face. So you got to push it, it stretches a little bit, but then you got to back up a little bit, right, you start
asking questions, you get a little intrusive, and then you back up a little bit. So you have to, it’s an art form. It's not a
science. And every person, every dance, if you will, is a little bit different. But the point is you're trying to you know,
define them in terms of their avatar, in terms of you know, what they're interested in investing in what they like, what
is missing in their investment portfolio, and specifically, in this case, you're trying to identify what their tax avatar is,
so that you can go look for a tax advantaged investment that might fit by then by the time you're having this
conversation, or you can have this hypothetical conversation. And then you can go check out the Dell, Delaware
statutory trust, and realize, Wow, I've got something that'll fit. And again, this goes back to this idea that every great
salesperson should have a really detailed profile on everybody in their database. And so hopefully, you organize your
database in such a way that you capture all of those pieces. So I'm a big fan of having a CRM with an unlimited
number of custom fields. And you basically design the database on the fly until it holds everything you want it to
hold. And because your universe of people that you're having these quality conversations with is relatively small.
There's no reason why you can't even just have it in a file folder. Right? The challenge is searching it. So you have to
index it somehow even on a spreadsheet, you know, where you just put their names, you check boxes so that you can
sort and find everybody that's interested in tax benefits, everybody that's in tax benefits that's also self employed
everybody that is over a certain income level, everybody lives in a particular state, whatever it is, you know, so
database is better because you can query it. And then as you work with your CPAs, and you find out which people
qualify for whatever particular offering, the features of whatever particular offering you have, you can go look to
make a match like we do with our investor registry. All the deals get profiled, according to the investor registry. All
the people who fill out the investor registry get profiled, and when there's a match, that’s how we do our
matchmaking. It's not complicated. Make sense? Okay, so Craig, | knew you want to make sure you | think you had
something in the chat. | don’t know what it was. But let's flip over to you. | want to make sure everybody who came
with a question gets an answered before we wrap.

Craig Kamman 45:45

Yeah, it wasn't really a question. It was just kind of some input on the conversation earlier that Susan had about the
organic farming. And it just I've got a friend that he’s a wounded warrior, he set up a farm to raise organic food and
animals. And he set up a distribution center and other farms, other wounded warriors that raise different crops. So
now they're, they're selling organic foods to restaurants. Love it. | don't know, if it's something that kind of business

model might fit into what you're going | was just kind of adding just somehow that's

Russ 46:21

great, right? That's why we're in the club, right? | mean, one person is a gateway to all kinds of resources we wouldn't
March 10, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales
and Marke...

@ Thu, 9/23 6:20PM @59:17

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, question, talking, syndication, deal, sales, tax, conversation, farm, avatar, benefit, investors, tax benefits, understand,

sell, coa, person, point, find, marketplace

SPEAKERS

Staci Gray, Russ, Craig Kamman, Scott Florida, Susan Horst

) Russ 00:17

Hey, everybody, this is Russ. And we're here for another edition of syndication mentoring club, ask the mentors for
this is March of 2021. And this is sales and marketing. And so riding shotgun here with me is the beautiful, lovely and
talented Stacey gray. And of course, we have some nice folks from the club on board and pay attention to make sure
that somebody doesn't show up in the waiting room and get ignored. But, but excited to be here with you today. |
think that | mentioned before we hit the record button that | didn't have anything submitted or pre submitted as far
as a question went. And these really are not great for pre submitted questions anyway. | mean, | don't mind getting
them. But it's really a lot better to catch me off guard on the fly. Because that's the way sales is right? When you go
out there in the real world and you're walking into a situation, you don't know what's going to come up, you have no
idea. There's no rehearsal, there's no scripting, you just really have to know your technique, you have to understand
the principles and then you have to be able to think on the fly. And then in the sales training, of course, | share with
you some of the techniques that you can use when you catch yourself a little flat footed and you know, you find
yourself somebody says something like, | don’t know what to say. And we call that a porcupine, right? If somebody
asks you a question you know the answer to or you don't know what c need to buy yourself in time, you just flip the
question back on them, and get them talking what you gather yourself. So anyway, | don't have much of an opening
monologue. But | do like to kind of get the juices flowing. So Susan, you had mentioned that you had a question
coming in. So let's go ahead and start with you.

(s) Susan Horst 01:57

Yeah, well, I'm, I'm still learning what your rules of engagement are. So you know, if | if this is not the appropriate
setting for this, you can say that, okay, | am learning about my yet. Just for everybody here, | have an idea. | want to
provide senior housing with farm food with better food. Yeah, | want to locate them. The senior residence is in a way
that the delivery of farm food is easy. And so that's it in a nutshell, I'm doing market research on who the likely
customers are at least three different places. And the question that | submitted is, how do | do that market research?
But since then, | you know, | keep talking to people as | asked you questions, so I'm getting new leads. Sure. So |
spoke with someone yesterday who suggested that senior cohousing might be a group of people that, you know,
they've already chosen their place. But they might be a group of people that | can go to and say, This is my plan.
This is what | want to develop if it had existed when you were ready to move, would you have liked it? And this person
there's all kinds of people that are there. So you you may be able to gain some access through those relationships
through the association or whatever. You definitely have some some, some work to do. Right. And that's all on you.
Just trying to figure out your deal. The one good thing is if you figure it out, you're definitely not going to be Waldo,
you're not going to be out in the marketplace being like everybody else, you'll have something unique, you're gonna
have to work a lot harder to get there. But once you get there, you'll have something, jobs, something special. And
more than that, you're going to have something that that you have passion for. Right? Okay, so before we switch

gears, anybody have any questions they want to ask or comments they want to make about that ginormous
monologue.

@) Staci Gray 25:26

| see you're planning on doing the assisted living homes, and then having them be with foreign food?

(s) Susan Horst 25:35

Yes, | could go in one of three directions, | could go in more of an independent direction. So people who you know
already value nutrition, farm food, you know, a beautiful outdoor setting. They are abundant in the Pacific Northwest.
And, but they want to downsize. They don't want to, you know, get up on ladders. They don't want to push
wheelbarrows. So make a setting for them, sort of a 55 plus community. So that's one avenue. The other avenue is
the assisted living. And with that, you know, | have the daughter Judy thing, she really becomes my customer. And |
don't know, you know how big | don’t know if it’s a jean Marino residential assisted living, or if it's a bigger model, I'm
really eager to meet Lo, because he has sort of this idea of a campus of many residential assisted livings and |, my

instinct is that I'm going to need more doors in order to be able to afford to deliver farm food. Yeah. So So that's
number two. Well,

@) Russ 26:46

there's one other thing I'll just toss in, because I’m old enough to forget if | don't, but in so hopefully, your brain will
work better than mine. But you know, if you create a productive farm, you aren't limited to only servicing your own
people you can sell outside, obviously. Right? Right, you might be able to get scale by creating strategic alignment.

So instead of trying to prove the model with you know, 100 beds, you can prove the model with 10 beds, and get your
volume from other places. Yeah, no, |

@) Susan Horst 27:13

have that idea, too. It’s sort of like a side hustle, if you will. And then the third thing, and this is gonna sound super
hippy, but hang with me,

© Russ 27:25

Pacific Northwest, we get it. Yeah.

‘ Susan Horst 27:29

There's a thing called cohousing. And it sounds super commune like, but it's like the capitalist version of a commune.
otherwise have. So thank you for putting that up. You guys can connect in the forum or get together with offline and
have a follow up conversation? Nice. All right. So Scott, come back to you. Because | didn’t ask you. If | cleaned that

up long enough for you. Is there anything else you wanted to ask? or comment on?

Co Scott Florida 46:47

| think that helps a lot. You know, just getting the the framework is really what | was looking for. So you know, and if
you've got input too, on, like directions to go, where do you chase out all the information? It sounds like what you're
saying, and CPA is really where | need to go to get, you know, most of the tax details that | can offer. But any other
thoughts you have there about how to put a good sales package together in my mind anyway to deliver? That's,
that's what I'm looking for?

@ Russ 47:18

Yeah, well, you know, if you've read the creature from Jekyll Island, one of the reasons that book is so powerful is not
just because Ed lays it all out. But because he footnotes everything he did, right when | do the newsletter, | say things,
but | always make a point of linking to the source articles. So when people are looking at it, they realize I’m not just
making this stuff up, you know that it's out there. And | try to cite sources that people already know, and accept and
respect. One of the things you have to be cautious of everybody as a syndicator, is you can't give tax or legal advice.
And so you have to let people know that, you know, not, oh, yeah, you can write this off. That's tax advice. You can
say, well, it's my understanding from my CPA, that this is the way it works, | encourage you to check with yours, or
you can have yours check with mine, or you can check with mine. The point is, is that you're punting on all of the Tax
Questions to a CPA, but you shouldn't be fielding those questions unless you already know the answers. But just
because you know, the answers doesn't mean that you are going to be delivering the answers with any authority,
people should not be relying upon you for that. And the same thing is true in your paper in your file when you're
putting a deal together. And especially when you're alluding to certain things like you know that this particular
offering qualifies for this tax treatment or that tax treatment. You can say it, if you cite it, and you have a citation
that's stronger. If in your file, you have some documentation that shows that you actually did the homework and you
have a basis in third party truth for making the statement in good faith, your file is tighter. And it means if somebody
challenges you because somebody might they could be wrong, you're going to be more confident, or there could be
two different viewpoints. And you know, that happens too. Are we going to have inflation or deflation depends on
who you talk to. So, you know, but if your investment thesis is based on something, you have to have a basis and
credibility for why you are believing that you can't just make it up because you need it to be there to make your case.
So yeah, you know, you're going to be constantly working with your CPA and your lawyers to make sure when you're
talking about asset protection, estate planning, privacy and tax, that that you you are basing all of those your
thoughts Your business decisions and your representations. All on, on on credible professional input. To make sense?
Yeah. Okay, cool. All right. We could probably squeeze in something else if anybody has anything else. But we don't
have to belabor the point. Stacy, you have anything you want to chime in on anything you've seen in any your clients
in the sales area that you think would be useful, either in terms of a problem they're facing Do you need help with or
maybe something you've seen them doing that's working in the sales or marketing arena.

@) Staci Gray 50:39

| think the one thing that I've seen, which | kind of mentioned with Susan is really knowing your avatar and talking to
your avatar, instead of just like spewing and putting out what you think, is going to be valuable, but actually really
knowing their pain points, knowing what moves the needle for them personally, | think allows the conversations to be
much more targeted.
0 Russ 30:05

Yeah. So Susan, that's actually on my short list of things | want to do I've talked about so maybe we can get together
offline and compare. | call him resilience wrenches. Yeah. And so we can talk about that. But we do have a couple

other questions.

©) Staci Gray 30:19

Tomorrow, more comments, okay. | feel like you have multiple avatars. So | think getting clear on the multiple avatars
while you're doing your market research is going to be key, versus doing market research as a core blanket avatar,
right? You have daughter, Judy, you have maybe the homestead people. So get clear on each of those. And then
another place that you can actually look for how you can be unique is people who like are also saying people who
are similar to you, then going on to Google and reading all of the reviews, because people will say what they like and
what they don't like, and you'll be able to identify really quickly where you can stand out, and then position that in

your value proposition when you're selling it.

© Russ 31:04

Bonus time. Very good. Yeah. And remember, when you're trying to bring various constituencies together to do
something joint, then each, each constituency is its own avatar. And what you know, you can kind of Venn diagram it
where you get the overlap, and you have to figure out what they're all going to have in common, because that's
what's going to pull them together. But then you also need to be really targeted on what's outside of that
commonality. To reinforce, to get each of those individual constituencies to the table.

@) Staci Gray 31:37

Yeah, cuz you have to talk your copy and your pitch has to talk to their specific pain points. Right. Otherwise, you're

gonna miss the mark. Right.

@ Russ 31:47

Okay, so I'm gonna see if | can see the chat. | won't let me break

@) Staci Gray 31:53

massekhet because it's recording and other

0 Russ 31:56

people. Yeah. Okay. So | think Scott, you're up.

r | Scott Florida 31:59
maker, is what what's your criteria when you're looking for the perfect home? So in other words, you're in a home
today? How's it going on a scale of one to 10. And they're going to give you a number, whatever the number is, the
first thing you want to do and don't be afraid of doing this is finding out the positive side. Oh, you give me You gave
it a seven. Great, that's really good. What is it you really enjoy what's what makes it a seven. And they're going to tell
you what they like and what they buy. And you know that if you're going to move them, you're going to have to
match that and more. Right now you're just trying to figure out what is what, what's the minimum in order I've got,
that's my baseline, I’ve got to be able to match that and if there’s something in that mix that you absolutely cannot
do, then either it's not a match or you're going to have to compensate that with something that you are going to
bring that they don't have. That is going to be so much better. They're willing to trade. Alright, so it’s much easier to
just improve. And that that's really the great essence of entrepreneurism is being able to diagnose the marketplace
and find out what's missing, and take it to the next level. That's why competition is so important. | just went to the
DMV the other day, there's no competition. And it shows everywhere, it’s the most horrible customer experience
service experience you'd ever want. Because there's no options. There's no innovation, they don't care, they don't
have to care. So the other part of the question is, well, so you didn't give it a 10. So you know, between seven and 10,
What's missing? Now, you don't want to plant seeds yet, you want to let them talk, because you're going to learn
before you infect their thinking with your thinking. And if they give you what you're looking for, then you know, okay,
this is out there, there is a degree of awareness in the marketplace already. | just need to develop it. So I'm onto
something, if they don't give it to you. Now, you got to say, okay, am | Steve Jobs? Have | figured something out that
they don't even know that they want, but when they see it, they'll want it? Right? And then you have to be creative at
how you ask those questions, maybe without putting it right on the table. And that goes back to the fundamental
understanding of the difference between features and benefits. Okay, if you're going to bring farm fresh food to the,
to the facility, that's a feature. That's just what you're gonna do. Right? There's a benefit attached to that, which you
instinctively know that they may not know. Right? And so you have to present to them the hypothetical, if you were to
have not this feature, but this benefit, right? Is that something that would be interesting to you? Right? Okay. Because
then a one, you're not giving away how you're going to do it, right. And so in market research, depending on how
innovative you are, you don't want to be bouncing around the marketplace, giving up your secret sauce, right. And at
the same time, you also don't want to miss out on them, really embracing the service just because they don't
understand the benefit. Right. So you start with the benefit, you stay focused on the benefit. And as you begin to
hear them saying that they're interested, they're having problems like, you know, so | learned this when | went to IBM
sales training, they taught us how to sell a product that we didn't even know what we were selling. And the reason is,
is he would they were trying to completely erase from us any, any concept of an agenda that we would have in a
sales interview, we were 100% focused on trying to figure out what their problem was. And of course, they didn't
know how to say what they wanted. This guy had a cold, he was chilly, turned out that he needed socks, he didn't
have any socks on. So the guy the guy would do in the roleplay had come to work that day with no socks on. And
he's sitting there with no socks on. And of course, today, people do that, and they have the invisible socks and alll
that back then you didn't do that you guys in a suit with no socks. And he's sitting there and you know, nobody's
looking at his feet or his ankles to notice that. But he was giving us all the clues that he was cold. Right. But we were
so embraced in this idea that we were there to sell equipment. You know, in this case, we're learning how to sell IBM
typewriters, believe it or not back in the day when there was such a thing as a typewriter. typewriter. Yeah, they
weren't they were innovative, that they were electric typewriters, not those electrical, mechanical, clunky things. You
know, it was like a real electric typewriter, almost a word processor processor, but not quite. Anyway. So you had to
ask him enough questions to figure out what benefit he was wanting to buy. And then you had the freedom to design
whatever product you wanted, that would provide the benefit. But your your mission was to uncover the benefit that
they wanted to buy, and the realization that often people will know the benefit that they want, but they don't know
the product or service that they want. And that’s where the entrepreneurial opportunity is. When you when you
uncover that benefit and you realize, okay, | can create a product or service is going to scratch that edge. And
nobody's out there doing it. Now, okay, that’s anecdotal, one person. Now if you talk to 1000 people and two people
are interested, right? If you talk to, you know, if you talk to 100 people and 90 are interested, you're onto something.
Right. Okay. So that's, that's part of it. So the next part of it is, you know, how do you how do you find people but

before | go there, do you have any clarifying questions you want to ask about that? Did all that makes sense?
