know, 18% a year or whatever, and there's a lien on the shares. So then, you know, there's a whole process in there,
but you just got to follow that. And like Russ said, you do have to treat everyone equally. So if it’s five people want to
get that loan in an urn, probably not 18%, whatever the legal rate maximum is, then | would just divvy it up pro rata
based on how much they own. And and the other just, I'm sure you've talked about it with Robert is just obviously
assume that and that's probably the art part, right? Like what percentage of people do you think are going to do it
because if you need 100 grand, you and you have 10? investors, you can't tell everybody give me 10 grand, you're
going to be short. So you're gonna have to come up with some number and it's an art form to figure out how much
you're gonna have to ask for. So that when 70% say yes, you know, you've got it or something.

@) Janna Hubbs 59:05
Got it. Thank you. Thank you.

@ Russ 59:08

Okay, well, ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna call that a wrap because we're at the top of our hour, great
participation, great questions, keep them coming. We'll keep doing these and it's good. Good for you guys being out
there doing the real deal. Keep up the good work, and we'll see you on the next one. Thanks, guys, and thanks to Ikki
guy.

© Mauricio 59:27

Appreciate
JO

deal, write them a letter and said, Hey, you know, since you've invested in this deal, some of the terms have changed
you know, hopefully they're for but for the better, right? | mean, but but but sometimes they're not for the better.
Sometimes it's like to make room for another investor to give them give them better returns which are dilute your
current investor, it doesn't matter. But the point is their material change when you send them a letter, and you say,
look, here are the changes. I've got updated documents, it’s gonna affect everything. If you don't want to remain in
the deal. | totally understand because that's not it's not exactly what we agreed to at the beginning. So if you want
out of this deal, I’m happy to give you your money back. Some people decide to give him an interest and put down.
But that's one option. Or if you like the New Deal, then you turn then you're happy with it, just go ahead and sign the
documents and give us updated documents with the new with the new terms and financing or whatever new the new
disclosures, we, I'm hesitant to call that a rescission, it is kind of what we call a rescission letter. But a rescission letter
technically is when you've done something wrong. That's the third thing is that you actually raise the money and
you've turned out you violated the rules or something. And so now you're going back and backpedaling, that’s not
what you're doing, you're simply changing the terms of the deal. And if you have investors in that, you just have an
obligation to go back to them and let them know. And you have to give them the right to get out of the deal if they
don't want to and, and you may upset some investor, somebody may have given you 100 grand three months ago,
and now they don't want their 100 grand back, but they don't like the terms of the deal. So there's some relationship,
it's not something | encourage you guys to do. willy nilly, there’s a cost involved, because we got to do all that, you
know, all the new documents and everything. But it is possible if you if you decide midstream to change to change
course. And in your case, of course you haven't even taken any investments in your case. It's just the you know,
redoing the business plan and coming up with a new deal and updating all the other Doc's.

Russ 31:09

| think the important thing for everybody to hear is that once you have put a deal in motion, and you have raised
money, you can't change the deal when a new investor comes along, or a new deal comes along and you think hey, |
want to | want to take this money that I've collected under premise a and rearrange it to premise B, you have to give
people who were in the opportunity to get out or read up. So David, Did that answer your question?

31:39

Yes, sir. perfectly.

Russ 31:41
Nice. Okay. Well, chugging right along Mr. Scott, Florida, you are up.

Scott Florida 31:48

Okay, | had a couple questions. And the first one was related to building a board of advisors. | spoke with a friend of
mine about that, and he was immediately asking about the DNO insurance. Yep. So | just wanted to get some
feedback on, you know, how do you go about building that? And what kinds of legal things we need to be aware of
when we're trying to put together a team?

Russ 32:10

Okay, so I'll give you my nickel tour. Because it's a little bit insurance related, not just legal, but related, but they go
control of the manager. But the investors want to want to hold people accountable for things that they couldn't
control. It gets hard because now you feel like I'm dealing with somebody who's being unreasonable. They’re holding
me accountable for something | had. | had no control over. You know, |

@) Janna Hubbs 55:23

| honestly don't think that's the case for us. But | think that in the documents do indicate annually communication,
but then there was a precedent where the syndicator was communicating quarterly. And so there's a pattern that
was published, right. Yeah, exactly. And then if that’s the case, then is the syndicator. obligated? Or do they kind of
have an obligation to continue that pathway? | mean, like, what's more fire in our syndication that we have in
Abilene, we increase the sense of the communication, and let them know that during this period of time, we are
going to be communicating as frequently as we can, when we get information in order to keep them on board, and
that there will be no distributions at this point in time. You know, that type of thing? Sure, that doesn’t mean that it’s
right or wrong. It's what Randy and | chose to do. And so | don't know that he's that this individual is out of line. But
yet there was a pattern that was kind of established. Yeah.

& Russ 56:31

Well, | don’t know that we can, you know, we're right near the top here. | know you had a couple other questions. So |

think we've covered that one pretty, let's take one more, and then we'll have to, um,

@® Janna Hubbs 56:39

if if one needs to do a cash call for a syndication, that'll be me. Who are the best people to have on my team or for
me to involve to determine the amount the potential interest that may be paid to those investors that participate in
that or opt out? And what those things are, and then the legal documents that we need to design or develop in order

to get the information out into a conference call? You

© Russ 57:08

know, that type of thing? Yeah. So | think Robert is actually doing a deals ask a mentor tomorrow. And you're okay.
Yeah, you probably want to take that the business side of it, how do you communicate a cash call, I'll let Mauricio
tend to jump in on the legal side of it. Because you know, the basics are you got to treat everybody the same,
everybody has to have equal access to opportunity. You know, in other words, if you're going to offer somebody the,
the opportunity to earn interest by making a loan to the company, or buying in additional shares, and diluting other
people, if everybody participates evenly everybody's equal. But if they don't, if they decide not to do it, then there's
an opportunity for someone who's willing to do it to either buy in more equity or to make a loan at some given
interest rate. So I'll stop there and toss them ratio, you go straight to

© Mauricio 57:59

the operating agreement, there should be a section in the operating agreement that talks about additional capital
contributions, which are what cash goals are, and there should be a process in there. And you just have to follow that
process. You know, they're all slightly different. | mean, I've got my process in there. And if somebody doesn't
contribute, then there's an opportunity for others to contribute on their behalf at a, an obscene interest rate, you
wy KUSS 49.14
And the other thing too about that is is is on the front end of the relationship, if you have somebody that gags on
that, and wants to reserve the right to sue, and is not willing to go to binding arbitration, it tells you a little bit about
the relationship, I'd walk personally. Because it tells me they're not afraid to get into a fight. And | it's not a fight |
want to get into unless they're bringing something so valuable. So you're replaceable, they're the only game in town.
And when you're raising money, there's a lot of money out there, you do not have to take that money, that is money,
you probably don't want no matter how big the check is not worth it. My opinion. So if it's a deal depends on the
deal, you know, but you always want to make sure so kind of goes back to this other side. You know, we talked about
this, | believe on the the Ask the guy show that we just recorded with Mauricio yesterday. And that is the idea that
there's kind of two sides of law that you should be aware of there is the kind of the transactional getting deals done,
the people were more administrative, but I'd call it administrative, helping you just navigate compliance issues and
get contracts in place. And then there's the litigation side of things. And it's always good to have a litigator, a really
skilled litigator on speed dial, because you never know when you're going to need them. Number one, and number
two is when you're putting together a deal and you're starting to smell a rat, and you want to make sure that your
deal is really airtight, you might want to swing by and say if you were going to attack me, based on this set of
circumstances, this is a document, how would you do it? How would you come after me? And it's the same question
you ask the insurance Council is like, hey, if you had to go, you know, go after an insurance company to make them
pay, what do | have to have in my agreements? What do | have to have in my contracts? What do | have to have in
my policy, to make sure that you you could, you know, turn them upside down and shake their pockets dry on my
behalf? And, and | want to know that, right? You don’t always want to do that. But it’s not bad to have done that
once or twice in your career, because you're gonna find patterns and principles in their answers. And then you can,
you can put a lot of those pieces in. And again, experience like one of the advantages you have working with
somebody like Mauricio having been on the litigation side, even though it isn't litigate today is that when he's looking
at his agreements, he understands what a litigator is looking at, he understands where the litigator is going to look
for a weakness to penetrate that the corporate veil or to somehow find a weakness in your defense. So I'll give you
the last word on that, Mauricio, and then we'll flip on to the next

© Mauricio 47:47

question that we can move on. | think that's spot on. Okay, great. Anybody have

© Russ 47:51

any questions about anything we've covered so far? Because that's the end of the questions that I’m aware of. So we
can kind of riff on that. Jana, you got to unmute.

@) Janna Hubbs 48:00

| submitted three more questions that | had submitted earlier today, but they didn't go through because | was at my

mom's taking care of her. Okay, | happen to see those.

© Russ 48:08

| didn’t, but they go through a process of membership, getting them and then they send them to me with my
morning brief. And so here | have, okay. | hope they're not Mickey Mouse questions.
@ Janna Hubbs 48:22

They're not | had heard this from my mother. What is the best recommendation of a syndicator? Is not
communicating with their investors.

© Russ 48:33

recommendation for who for the syndicator communicate investor, the investor? So the investor is upset because

they're not hearing from their syndicator? Correct. Okay. Mauricio, is there a line

© Mauricio 48:45

of communication? Or is there just O00 communication, they're like you're sending emails and they're not responding,

or they're just

® Janna Hubbs 48:53

emails and texts and no response?

© Russ 48:58

Well, | would send a, | would send an email with return receipt and Read Receipt requested and see if you get a
response that way, sometimes that'll shake somebody loose. The other thing that you could do is send a certified
letter that usually will get someone's attention then, you know, maybe the next level up is have your attorney call on
your behalf. If you have an attorney, you know, and again, you have to be careful with this. And | want to be | want to
encourage you to be very, very careful with this. Because the minute a, someone and this is how | am the minute | get
the sense that someone on the other side is hostile towards me. Then | button up and communication will go dark.
So there's always two sides to every story. So if someone has gotten nasty, if someone has threatened legal action, if
someone has threatened a phone call to a regulator, then then I'm going to go pretty silent. I'm going to I'm going to
communicate the minimal amount that | can and probably have everything vetted through my attorney which is
going to be expensive, which means you know, it becomes a drain on the fund because I'm operating on behalf of
the fund and now I'm engaged in expensive risk mitigation communication so | don't say these things lightly but | just
there's there's kind of a progression of escalation to try to get some buddies attention you know | had one situation
personally which is why I'm so protective of my my personal address that that there was a landlord that owned a
property next door to us a section a property that we had and the the landlord was having a difficult time with the
tenant we were having a difficult time with the tenant and so they just decided to show up and sit on my front porch
until | came out the house like okay, so we had to deal with them so there are ways to kind of put yourself where
people are going to see you but you know try to give people my opinion the benefit of the doubt as long as you can
try to be you have your demeanor be one of understanding sympathy Hey, I'm concerned about you | haven't heard |
wonder if you're okay, rather than then taking a hostile posture if you continue to get blown off after playing nice
then at some point you have to escalate but but my nickel tour on that is that you you don't want to you don't want
to play the I’m angry hostile threatening card until you have no other choice. So

@) Janna Hubbs 51:24

and | totally agree with you on that and this is not me that’s not being communicated but | do no other investors is a
going to do the work that you're hiring other people to do, which is | think, is what risio is basically saying, but it's
easy to get confused, because you hear asset manager and some people refer to the properties IE assets. Some
people refer to the portfolio, which contains a number of properties and cash as the asset. And they get confused
about who's doing what. So but entity structuring and understanding your entity structure is really, really important
because it flows into cash management and controls, it flows into insurance policies, which certainly flows into
corporate formalities. And when you're speaking Who were you speaking on behalf of you are always a

spokesperson of an entity of some sort. Because you're never speaking in your own voice in your own name. You're
always working as behind one of your alter egos. And so you know, if you think okay, you know, I'm Bruce Wayne, and
I'm conducting my personal business, but when | go out to fight cry, my Batman, | never talk about myself as Bruce
Wayne. | never do any business as Bruce Wayne, when I'm in my Batman outfit. I'm just I'm Batman. Does that make

sense?

© Ben 14:35

No, it does. And | think | just need to add the because | did all the chart of accounts and the cash management flow
and | just need to ride out and be specific and update the org chart with the, you know, the management company
that's met during the management function and being clear about the roles and how it fits into that structure.

G) Russ 14:56

Yeah, and take it to the next level when you're conducting business. On behalf of an entity, you have to say, who is
the manager and how do they sign? Right. Ben Dickey, President, Dickie management LLC, for ABC, you know
investment property rights something like that. But but but know what that is. Now what | used to do is | used to
have little labels printed up and that way when | had to sign said, | have a write all that out, | would just because
most of the time, whoever was doing the contract, they get it wrong. And | would just put the label on it, and then
just sign it and then you know, initial the label or whatever, and usually that was good enough unless that doesn't
work anymore. Mauricio, does that still work?

© Mauricio 15:41

I'm not even fossa, you would put like a, like a pre printed sticker and kind of stick it on top of the signature line or

something.

© Russ 15:46

Yep, yep. Yep. Like we remember we remember we had all those little houses in Phoenix, and | had to sign off one
deed and it was like, 64 of us like, | still see that

© Mauricio 15:56

from, from some of the IRS. Ira custodians. They'll they'll do something similar, a little sticky, and then I'll just sign

© Russ 16:03

Yep, yeah, you just print, print them out on your printer. And it's easy, but but the key is, you have to make sure when
Mauricio 21:10

Now, | think you're spot on. So the way | | think my approach is gonna be similar. But | always think of these at the
starting level will be there’s two separate two separate buckets. One is raising the capital, and all the regulation has
to do with raising the capital. And the second bucket is once you've raised all the capital, you're going to deploy it
somewhere into buying an asset, whether that's property or farm or something else. And then we got to figure out
what the regulations of anything are from deploying the capital. So on the regular on the raising the capital, that's
obviously my area and | can tell you that nothing changes from our regulatory you know, Securities and Exchange
Commission sec, you know, either registered find that exemption or it's illegal, our usual process, you're going to find
an exemption most likely a fucker rule 506 B, or rule 506. c, and we're going to comply with those rules and
regulations. When we raise the capital, that's identical. | mean, obviously, there’s part of that process is obviously
disclosing all the risks. And so these have unique risks that are different from risks that come from a multifamily unit
or a single family home, there's obviously much different risks involved in a, in an assisted living. And if you're gonna
do some farming, there's other risks. But that's just part of the disclosures, pursuant to our 506 b offering or 506 c
offerings, so that's identical, you're doing something a little different than instead of just going buying a piece of
property, you're actually developing and you're developing that specific niche. And that’s now you're going to the
second bucket, which is all real estate related. And it's going to be state specific as Russ that's, that's my next thing.
And then we're actually doing this right now, it’s going to actually be somewhat of a city specific, or it might be
County. So right now we've got two separate deals, one in San Antonio and wanting to Houston, and they have
vastly different facets, but they have different rules and regulations as to how we can put together this development
deal. And so in your case, your restrictions are going to be while there's the assisted living facility, so you need your
licensing and your regulation just to get that up and running. And Ben can talk better than | can on that, and he’s on
the call here, but certainly Jean garena as well. The the 55. And over piece, that to me sounds like that would be
something that typically would be contained in the CC and RS, the sort of the HOA documents that you put there,
whatever the restrictions on that development. And if you put a restriction in there that says only people that are 55
and over can live there, | don’t think you can just violate that you're going to follow your CCN Rs. And so you'd have
to amend the CC NRS to change that. And there's going to be a process there. So you really are looking for if you're
going to do this in the state of Washington, you're going to want to have somebody number one, it’s going to be a
real estate attorney that practices in the state of Washington that's familiar with a specific city that you're putting
this thing together and so that they can advise you as to | think those are two different issues by the way, one is the
55 and over | think that’s a an HOA the CCN ours | forget what the season R stands for. But the CCN are documents
which are basically just where all the rules and regulations covenants and restrictions all those oh there and then the
assisted living is is separate. | think you're combining those | mean most assisted livings | think are 55 and over
anyway but but that's all real estate related from an from a legal standpoint. That's where | would go you know, we
do quite a bit of it. You know, I'm not a real estate attorney shocker that a lot of people are shocked to hear that but
carry into my office is really familiar with not only assisted living facilities, but also with CCN. Ours and setting up
HOA fees. And that's where | think the restriction on 55 and over would be but that's how | break it down. It's the
security part raising the money and then working with a good real estate attorney who can advise you as to what
the rules and regulations are regarding assisted living 55 and over so you're gonna want to put together the HOA
documents and the CCN ours to cover that and then farming | had no idea

Russ 25:00

Yeah, so syndication syndication is money, raising the money deploying the money, which Mauricio talked about, and
compliance in that regard. These questions, Susan are primarily revolving around the deal. And the deal is going to
be very geographic in its jurisdiction and, and then the jurisdiction goes all the way down to the neighborhood to the
property, if it's an existing property, the CCN RS are there, if you've ever bought a piece of property, you get handled,
handed your CC and Rs. And those are things those are covenants, conditions and restrictions that apply to that
because you have a different company and you're you started the syndication under one brand, and now you've got
another company or another brand or, or something like that, then that's totally fine, because you've got most of the
zoning requirements. But But other than that, there's really no reason that | would see that you would separate the
management of those LLC. Now you may hire a property manager, you know, somebody, somebody else that
actually, you know, manages the asset itself. But there's really no reason to but if you had to, you certainly could |
would just ask the court the follow up question, | guess would be what are you trying to accomplish in changing the
manager of that property LLC, or the assisted living LLC?

Ben 10:44

No, and that you walk into that was helpful, because | think the key there is like, if we hired a property manager, then
I'm really just employing them. But I'm still the manager. So that’s a good thing. Sorry, go ahead. Sorry. Well, that's
the essence of the question really, is not if | go down that path, and | probably didn't think through it. No.

Mauricio 11:08

So | think a lot of people do get tripped up on that, in that there's a difference between the manager of the LLC,
which maybe you want to call, sort of the, the asset manager or sort of the sponsor, which is how we traditionally
think of it. And that's different from the property manager, that's just managing the property itself in the day to day
operations that reports to the asset manager, right, so you're the boss, the LLC, the manager is the boss, you hire a
property manager, potentially a third party property manager, and then you oversee them to do to make sure they're
doing their job correctly, those are two separate roles. It's certainly possible that if you have experience as a property
manager, to have your own property, my own property management company, but again, | would, | would have a
separate company, even if it’s your own, almost like treat it like a third party, except you own it. Hire your own
company, as a property manager, charge market rates for whatever property manager would charge. But those are

technically two separate roles, the LLC manager and the property manager.

Ben 12:08

Yep. Well, thank you. And | think that's it. It’s just being clear about the role. And even though it’s manager. Yes, it’s a
different role. Yep.

Mauricio 12:25

You're on mute, Rusty, you're on mute. Mute. All right.

Russ 12:29

Now, let me let me try that, again, rookie error. So let me just try to help you out a little bit in terms of a simple way
to understand it. If you think of your management company, as your spouse, think of it that way. Okay. So so you
know, you and your spouse own a home, you and your spouse own an investment property, you and your spouse own
a business, and you decide to hire a manager to run that business or to run that property as a property manager,
then, then you you are still the manager. So you would say to your spouse, hey, you know, honey, give this person a
call and do this or that, and they would do it, but they're not going to run the property. If that makes sense, your
management company has an alter ego of you for making management decisions. That's all it is. And so it's not
I'm not saying that's what happened with you, Mauricio, but just as a matter of practice, obviously, you and all of
your key providers and advisors should should should have whitelist of each other at the domain level. And then you
also probably should have a habit of checking your junk folder pretty regularly. If you don't do that. Some people do,
some people don't. But but you can understand how bad it is for your business for your reputation for you know,
goodwill, if people think that they've sent messages to you, and that they have it. And the other side of that, and |
don't know how it works in Mac or some other services. But | know in Microsoft in Outlook, when | send an email, and
| want to make sure somebody got it, you know, absent you know, sending certified mail return receipt requested, you
can request in an outlook, the option when you send an email for it to let you know when they received it. And then
also when they actually opened it. And so some of you probably already know that, but for anybody that doesn't
know that, that's something you can do. And | use that from time to time. You can also set your privacy settings in
such a way as | have mine so that you have to give your client your your email client permission to let someone know
if you receive something or if you opened it. So | often receive it open things and nobody knows that | did it because
| do not let my client tell people that unless | want them to know. So just be aware of that in your communication. So
| don't really have anything else to say on that. Mauricio, do you have anything else you want to add? Nope, nope.
And since we're on the topic of, of email, and communications, | know that a lot of professionals, you know, tax
advisors and lawyers especially and also doctors typically have a big disclaimer down on the bottom about
confidential information about what to do that you know that you shouldn't use it or whatever. And I'm guessing that
you know, from time to time, we're corresponding with people about fairly confidential information. So I'm going to
kind of go rogue a little bit here. But Mauricio, and maybe, john, you have something to say on this as well with your
background. But should people have something a footer in their email? For for confidentiality purposes when they're
communicating with clients? Ils that something you know that a syndicator would need to have? | know that, you

know, other professionals do it. But is that something that a syndicator would want to happen?

Mauricio 04:57

The actual answer is | don't | don't know. | don't think legally required the reason lawyer you'll see that typically from
lawyers and also from accountants primarily and that’s just because we have if we're dealing with clients, we
obviously have an attorney client privilege and something similar to that when you have your CPA. So that's why
that's, that's the purpose of that. That disclaimer, when you have a syndication business and you have investors,
there's obviously no legal you know, privacy, you know, relationship there. There's a fiduciary responsibility there
between you, but there's no, there's no privacy or, you know, legal privilege between those communications. So |
don't think there's it doesn’t doesn't hurt, obviously, but | don't think it’s going to be legally required like it is for CPAs.

Russ 05:39

Okay. All right. All right. Then I'll just sorry, move on. Sorry. Got my got a little frog in my throat. Too many meetings
today and not enough water. So Ben, Ben, are you on? Ben Dickey? Yeah, | guess that's you got Ben Vanek and Ben
Ben Dickey, but bendy here, see you there. So you want to just go ahead and ask your questions. You remember what
it was?

Ben 05:59

Yeah, | do. And | can ask it in a more generic or a very specific way. But in our current deal of the holding company
with two LLCs. Right now, I've got the operating agreement drafted for one of the LLCs that holds the real estate, to
have my syndication Company Act as the manager. And I'm just kind of curious, both generically and very
specifically, what are the guardrails or boundaries around? Like, if you want to change the management? who's
managing the real estate LLC? Like, are there boundaries or guardrails around when you can change your operating

agreement in the life of the project?
together. But but so first of all DNO insurance is directors and officers insurance. And we talked about that at the
secrets of successful syndication. | know for most of us, it goes right by, but you will get to a point where you're going
to want to have that for yourself, and also for your advisors and smart advisors are going to ask for that. And when
you become a smart advisor yourself, you're going to ask for it also. And what it does, is it it's an insurance policy
that pays if the people who are responsible for the decisions that the entity makes, get sued and make a mistake. So
errors and omissions insurance is similar for the management team who's actually making the day to day decisions.
But directors, directors and officers is is is more personal. And it also covers people who sit on the board of directors.
So in a typical corporate structure, and a limited liability company, even though they call them members. And it's got
a little bit different terminology. The end of the day, the structure is basically the same, you have investors, the
people who are stakeholders, and they're passive, they don’t get a say, other than either initially accepting it, or in
some cases, being able to vote along the way, you know, directors and officers or directors in and out. The Board of
Directors is the group of people that represent the investors and they hire and select the management team, who are
the executives, the people who are doing the day to day work. Okay. So DNO insurance protects the people who are
doing both the board of directors work and the officers work, mainly the day to day work on a personal level. So if
they get sued personally for their acts that they did on behalf of the entity, the DNO insurance kicks in and protects
them. Does that make sense so far?

© Scott Florida 34:15

Yeah. So far, | guess. Is there a distinction between an advisory board and a directing board?

0o Russ 34:21

Yes, yes. So in order to correct me if I'm wrong, but we use the term advisory advisedly. So the idea the idea is that,
you know, these are people who you're putting on your brochure, and you are stating you have access to who are
able to give you advice when you need it in their area of expertise related to your project. Most of the time, we do it
for the cache, but it is good to have those people on board in case you really do have a hard question and you need
an answer, but they don't really have any voting. capacity, they don't get to hire you or fire you. They don't have any
real accountability directly to the shareholders. They're just there as advisors, they're like you hiring a CPA, but
instead of saying, this is going to be the CPA, and we're just hiring them, you put them on the advisory board to be
your tax advisor. But at the end of the day, you're just asking him tax related questions. So it's more about cache. But
if you have a real board, like a board of directors that have voting power, that have oversight responsibility over the
executive team making the day to day decisions, well, they have a lot more liability. All right. So you have to decide
who these people are going to be how you're going to use them, whether you really want their advice, whether you're
going to hire them for their services, or whether you just want them on their on your brochure and them saying that
they're willing to take your call and answer a question. If you have to ask once you decide that, that as far as the
insurance goes, yes, it would be DNO insurance that would indemnify those people. And if they're really smart,
they're going to ask to be named as additional insured. Now, they're not just going to ask if you have it, but they're
going to want some type of an agreement between your entity and them stating that this is their capacity, and
you're representing to them that you're covered. That's one level. So one is to say you they you asked me will you be
on my advisory board? And | say, Sure, do you have Do you know, and you say, Sure, and then we both trudge along.
Right? That is one level up pretty poor level of structuring the deal. The next level would be | asked do you have do
DNO insurance, as you see S is a great, can | see it, and then | want to see it. And that's a different level. From my
perspective. The third thing would be, | want to be, | want to have a written agreement that states that | have this
professional relationship with you. So that if in fact there's a claim, my attorney can go make a claim on this
insurance policy, the safest way to do it is if | asked you to place me on the policy, as an additional insured, my name
is now on that insurance policy, there's no doubt that the company who's insuring knows that I'm there, and that |
expect to be covered if there's an issue. And of course, that they're probably going to want information on me. And
they're going to underwrite whether or not, you know, they want to do that. And some people will say that's worth
the hassle. Some people will say it’s not worth the hassle. Depends right on the level of advice, you're going to be
given them. But at the very least, if I'm going to be on somebody's advisory board, | want to see the DNO policy. So |
know that you really have it. And | want to make sure that | have a written agreement that states that | am in fact, in
a position. And you are representing to me that I'm covered by that policy. If | had any serious concerns that
something would happen, | probably would insist on being named as a listed insured on the policy. Okay, so that's,

that's my perspective. reciate, you have anything you want to add in all that?

 ) Mauricio 37:50

| mean, this is just this is an area for sort of the Randy Hester's of the world. Right. So this is definitely falls into
insurance law. | mean, my The only question | would have is, is, if I'm on an advisory board, | would | would be taking
the position that I'm not giving any management, you know, making any management decisions or anything. |'m
literally an advisor. And so the question | would have is being on the DNO policy, Does that hurt that argument?
Because now well, if I'm just advising, I'm not making decisions, and why am | on it, you know, policy? This is why you
want to have an insurance Council in general. And then this is a specific question that | would | would be, you know,
asking somebody like Randy, who | know has been on the show many times and they can go back to the archives, |
think and take a look at that. He's listed in

G) Russ 38:30

the provider network. He may not be on the SMC platform provider network, but he certainly on the real estate guys
radio show, Resource Network. But yeah, he’s he’s, he’s been very helpful to us over the years. So Did that answer the
question? You got a follow up?

© Scott Florida 38:49

Yeah, those are those are that's really helpful input. So is there a difference in price between the actual director and
an advisor policy? Um, do you have any thoughts?

© Russ 39:04

Yeah, | don't know that there. | mean, | don’t know that there's such a thing as an advisor policy. | mean, it's DNO you
know, it's, it's, it's when they underwrite, they probably have a base rate based on, you know, a standard realm of risk.
And, you know, it's like when you go get a life insurance policy, if you're a certain height, weight, and you have the
right blood profile and family history, you're going to get a rate, and that’s their base rate. And if you're in perfect
health for your age, if you come along and you bring in some complication, you've got high blood pressure, history of
cancer in your family or whatever, they're going to rate you, meaning they're going to sign additional risk premium,
your premiums going to go up because they want more return because they're taking more risk. Well, | would
imagine the same thing is true in a situation like this. So what you have to do in those situations is be clear about
exactly what this person's role is. And before you spend any money on attorneys or even wasting your insurance
brokers time, | would say work out the deal with the party, the the advisor, and do you know kind of a memorandum
of understanding, which is like, okay, you have a conversation about, you know what the expectations are roles and
responsibilities and rewards. And then you document that kind of bullet point on a little memorandum of
understanding, and you both look at it and go, yep, this is it, we both agree, okay, it's not maybe technically legally
sound, but it is a meeting of the minds, it’s the beginning of a contract, and then you sign it. And that way you have
it, and now you can trudge off and go see your insurance Council. And then you can talk to your you know, your your,
your Business Council and the people putting your operating agreements and contracts in place, and then have
Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Legal and Compliance
with Russel...

@ Thu, 10/21416PM @ 59:42

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

mauricio, deal, people, question, syndication, Ilc, property, investors, work, syndicator, business, jurisdiction, advisors,

documents, communication, property manager, case, real estate attorney, separate, real estate

SPEAKERS

Mauricio, Ben, Janna Hubbs, Scott Florida, Russ, Susan Horst

Russ 00:16

Hey, syndication veteran club, this is Russ and we're here for our March edition of Ask the mentors legal with
Mauricio. And that company, we got a big crowd, which I'm super excited about. Hopefully that means that we've got
a bunch of syndicators out there pushing themselves to the limit, and getting into real world situations where they
have real world questions. And some of you are just getting started. And, you know, you don’t know what you don't
know. And you're afraid to make a mistake, which is fine. That's good. That’s why you have mentors, right? You have
people to call and to ask for help. But ultimately, the best questions and the best q&a is coming when you're actually
out there pushing up against real world situations. So we do have some pre submitted questions. So we're going to
get to those first. And then and then I'll take Scott, Florida after that, because he’s got one that came in late, but he
has one. And then after that, I'll open it up. So Jana, I'm going to start with you. How in the heck no, sir. How is it?
What is the best way to get ahold of Mauricio? I've tried to email and tried to text so I'm pretty sure he can’t blame
you. When you were in Austin, you could have blamed that on being snowed in I'm pretty sure that's not the case of
Santa Barbara. So what's going on there counselor,

Mauricio 01:29

say, you know, today | feel like I'm in Chicago. It's a or Billy's except I'm looking at David Kafka. It's like it feels like I'm
in Belize, when during those little hurricane sessions, we got a really crappy No, | think we connected today, Jenna,
we were | don't know what was going on, | think it was go, | know it was going into the junk folder. So | apologize
already, we connected. So we're back on track, but I'm around.

Russ 01:49

Okay, so that's a great lesson, because we get this all the time. And you should do this. And you should make sure
your investors do this as well. So it’s really important that you instruct everybody that you're going to have critical
communications with to whitelist your domain, make sure they do that we had a lot of problems when you're
organizing the the front site trip, because of the nature of the commentary. And it's probably no secret, that there's
some censorship going on out there. Right, it just it happens. And so these messages just don't get delivered. Now,
is a syndication that | am involved in as an investor and the syndicator communicates with me but is refusing or has
not communicated with the other party or one of the other parties and I've been trying to say hey, it’s a great it’s still
a great investment you know, there's things that are moving forward, blah, blah, blah, yeah, it may be even a baby
but it's like

Russ 51:56

it may be that they've been hostile. Okay, yeah, if you're playing nice and they've been hostile it may be that they're
just being very guarded in the communicate again, there’s always two sides and | don't know | don't know any of the
backstory. But I've certainly been in those situations where there's people that you're happy to talk with and you feel
safe talking with and then at some point and ratio can comment on this at some point you have to dumb it down to
the lowest denominator you can only communicate to the entire group equally. And that has to be restricted to the
minimum amount of communication you're willing to make to the most hostile person in the group. And so there's
there’s that consideration so Mauricio, do you have anything to say on that | know that we've been through a lot in
these regards

Mauricio 52:37

You know, this is probably not very popular | mean I'm you know | am the anti lawyer so | agree with you you want to
you want to not take it to this level right away you want to make sure that you're trying to like you said write the
letters do whatever but I'm at the school | like not threats but you know i i the times I've been involved in representing
clients or people or friends that like you just send him an email as they look you're leaving me with no choice you

know if | don't hear from you or something and | must preface because you said something like the investment
trading investment I'm talking about scenarios where things aren't going well and you're suspecting something's you
know, | mean, I've done deals where there's flat out fraud involved and there's just something that does doesn't check
out are they you know, they won't give you the financials or they're just something like it's going wrong if they're not
responding as you know as Ken Kenny always like to say you know this this is when they should be doubly
responding and Tripoli responsible those aren't really words but you know every time we've gone down the road of
like hey you you know please get back to me | mean it's got to be nice got to be professional it's not like please get
back to me otherwise you know you leave me really with no choice to to have to go pick up the phone and call the
regulator usually the attorney will then respond at least | agree with Ross at that point, you know, the syndicator is
not going to talk to you but the syndicator will pass that information along to the attorney and then the attorney will
will then start a communication line with with thing but you're right it does cost money so that's not where you want
to start. And if the investment is going great and you're not hearing from them because you want more updates or
you're wanting report that they don't have that's different but if you suspect like if you're not getting you know you're
the deals going south so to speak and they're not communicating and you suspect something's going on | mean,
that typically gets the the attention that with Ross, but with most people,

Russ 54:17

you got to look at your documents and find out what what level of communication they're obligated to do. There's
what they're obligated to do, there is what is good customer service. And then you just have to realize that it's you
know, | mean, | just got done talking to a guy today who had several really bad things happen in deals and he just
overloaded and, and he went dark, he just couldn't handle it. You know, and you we may have you may have some of
that in your career. | mean, there’s some crazy stuff potentially coming down the pike, which means there'll be a lot
of opportunity in it. But some of the deals that are out there that people are involved in may not go as scripted. You
know, when when businesses get shut down when borders get closed when an entire industry are crushed. Like what

happened in the mortgage business back when | was in it, | mean all kinds of things that are completely outside the
you're doing business, you're doing business under the right name. Okay, so there's all that, are you waving your hand
up there, john are? Yes, no, just stretching. Okay. I'm watching all of you. So if you're doing weird things on camera,
just remember, | can see you and it is being recorded. Okay, so that was Ben. So let's go to Susan. Susan, you want to
just jump on and ask your question? Do you want me to read it?

&) Susan Horst 16:31

Yeah, no, I'll take a crack at it. Okay, so | want to have a business that combines farmland with residential living and
senior living specifically, and I'm just getting started how to do this, | want to research the regulations associated
with it, you know, what, what's the dividing line, and who's telling me this information who's regulating me, you know,
this is assisted living, this is independent living. This is 55 plus community. And, you know, if |, I've had a real estate
friends say, you know, you might try one thing, and then, you know, fail into something else, just temporarily, you
know, you might aim for 55 plus community, but then, you know, just go accept anyone, as residents in your
community. And, you know, will my regulators, you know, approve of that, like, how do I, how do | research this whole
topic?

© Russ 17:40

Yeah, know what to do? Well, so I'm gonna, I'm gonna take a stab at it. And what | do, it's just, it's really more about
how | approach a complicated problem. And |, it seems to work for me, it’s always the same, | try to break it up into
its component pieces. So you know, the first thing you have to do is identify what jurisdiction you're in. Because this is
what when you talk about regulation, you're going to be peeling back the layers of the onion, of jurisdiction. And you
can bet when you start combining these types of types of activities, you're going to have a number of different
jurisdictions that you're going to have to respond to, it’s just like, wnen you become a syndicator, and you're doing
real estate, if you're a licensee, you may have to deal with the Department of real estate, you're certainly going to
have to deal with the Securities and Exchange Commission, you are probably almost always, that's a federal level,
you're probably almost always going to have some regulatory oversight from whatever state you're operating in. And
then if you get into a specific niche, like a hotel, or a restaurant or something that where there's zoning you, then
you're going to have state and municipal authorities involved. And so what you have to do is you just have to kind of
look at your, your project, and you have to ask yourself logically, you know, where is the project? It's in the United
States, okay, that's a level of jurisdiction, then it's in a state, okay, that's a level of jurisdiction, it's in a county, that's a
level of jurisdiction, it's in a city that's a level of jurisdiction is or maybe it's not in a city, maybe it's in an
unincorporated area, then then you may have, what type of property what type of land, it could be something that is
going to be you know, the EPA is going to be involved or, and so you have to begin to ask yourself, all those things.
And then if you're going to do a specific type of development, or work on something that is specific to a
demographic, where there's maybe a tax advantage or something, then you may have IRS involvement. So you have
to begin to just break it all down into its component pieces. And then, for each one of those, you work your way kind
of back up and try to figure out which regulatory authority that you would need to contend With now a shortcut is to
find somebody who's already done a deal similar to the deal that you've done. And you ask them because they
probably had to solve all those questions or problems and have located some team. And then and then or you find
companies that specialize in those types of projects, advising on those types of projects, and valuing or brokering
those types of projects. And pretty soon you'll, you'll find people that are experienced, for example, as soon as you
put 55 plus assisted living, | mean, one of my first phone calls would be Gene greeno, and the whole residential
assisted living because they probably have some resources in that space. You're in Washington State. Randy and
Jana happened to operate in Washington State, they may have some relationships there and have some ideas. You
talked about farmland, | don’t know anybody doing farmland domestically, but probably wouldn't be difficult to find
someone to do that. So that's kind of how | would start approaching the problem, | don't really have an answer for
you, I'm more have kind of how | would approach solving the problem. And now I'll toss it to ratio and see if we can

add some additional insight.
them take that to the next level and really, really make it tight so that if anything ever come came of it either on a
claim or in a dispute, that the the the memorandum of understanding is actually written in the proper legal ease with
the proper jurisdiction, and well, we're on that and ratio, you may want to comment on this, but I'm just, I'm a big fan
of mandatory mediation, and then binding arbitration, and then a waiver of the right to litigate if you can get away
with it. Because nobody wants to go to litigation. And | want people to be forced to the negotiating table, | mean, |
the just so anybody is not familiar with the sequence of events, when you have a falling out, you have a dispute, it
starts with a negotiation, we're gonna have a conversation, try to work it out. If we can't, then we have to go see a
third party who's going to mediate, it’s not binding, it’s just we're going to get a third party involved, like on a
marriage counseling, because we just can't seem to work it out. And this person doesn't have any power over us. But
but we're going to have a conversation and they're going to, they're going to give us their advice and tell us what
they think. And we're hopefully going to take it and get settled. If that doesn't work, then we're going to go do what is
like a private, a private lawsuit. And you're going to go into an arbitration where typically a retired judge is going to
preside and you're going to have you know, the two sides in opposite rooms, you're going to sit together at the
beginning, and they’re going to try to work it out before you get started and you're going to refuse to work it out. And
then they're going to put you in different rooms and the lawyers are going to go back and forth, where you out. And
they typically you're going to start with extreme extreme distance, right? You know, you're suing for 5 million, they're
gonna offer 500,000. That's how it starts. And everybody knows where it's going to end, it’s going to end at 530. That
night, right at the number they already decided in at the beginning of the day, and all they're doing is working both
parties, the middle, that’s the way the game is played. But when you go through that, it’s all settled, it’s private, it’s all
under nondisclosure. It isn't part of a public record. It's done. And the last place you ever want to end up is in court,
because it's extremely expensive. It’s public, it’s bad for your reputation. So that's that's my, you know, 89 cents on all
of that ratio, you want to kick in anything on that topic?

Mauricio 43:06

No, | agree. | you know, as you guys know, | was before that | did have a life before the real estate guys. And before
that | was a litigator. So | I've done a ton of mediations. And they're very effective. A lot of people think of mediation,
like oh, it's voluntary, you know, it's not going to do anything, or you're just going through the motions, | will tell you a
lot of courts or even arbitrations will do a mandatory mediation anyway, because the judges want to try and get this
resolved anyway. So that will force you to go to mediation anyway. And it’s really powerful. | mean, we would settle
probably 80% of our cases of mediation because you get an independent third party, who has no skin in the game,
tell each side why their case is awful, they've got a decent, even if you think you're going to slam down and they can
be like, you know, there's a 5050 chance you may lose. So why don't you settle it? And they'll go to the other side.

And like Russ said, and tell them exactly, no, this is why your case sucks, and you know, there's a good chance you're
gonna lose. So you start, they start putting doubt in your case, or, and you're dealing with an independent third party,
typically a retired somebody in that area of expertise. So they're usually somebody more senior so that you have
respect for them. They know what they're talking about. And then, and so yeah, so | every single fuse, I've seen all my
every single contract | have, has a mandatory mediation provision, a good one attorney that objected to it. But
usually there's a good faith provision in there that it's not just mediation is good faith mediation, which | understand
sometimes difficult to quantify that but the idea is if you don't go in with good faith, then you're going to waive any
potential, you know, your your attorney fees, if you if you're waiving your right to attorney fees, so there’s some
penalty for that. And then yes, then going to arbitration, which is basically a courtroom in a in a conference room,
you know, with and the nice thing about an arbitration as Russ mentioned is that instead of having a jury of 12, or
something where you know, who knows who they are, they're supposed to be your peers that Forget it. You're dealing
with one or sometimes three arbitrators that again are experts in whatever fields, if you have a real estate dispute
their real estate people or if so they know what you're talking about it, you don't have to. So | highly recommend

doing that. And all of my contracts at least try and get an arbiter mediation and arbitration provision there.

i es AL .AA
JO

particular land and you accept owning the land under those conditions, and you have to abide by them, it may be a
member of an HOA, it may be in some specific zone that has been zoned a certain way and only allowed to do
certain things. So it really goes down to this specific property. So you start macro at the federal level, you go down to
the state, you go down to the county, you go down to the city, then you get down to the neighborhood or the
development, the individual property. And you just have to keep asking yourself who has jurisdiction, who has
jurisdiction, who has jurisdiction. And then once you discover that, then typically you are able to find out either who
those people are people who work with those people. And | think to Maria's point, when you're talking about a real
estate deal, the first and best place to start is with a real estate attorney, specifically one experienced with the type
of deal that you'd like to do in the jurisdiction that you're in. And usually that one person will open up the rest of the
doors and in help you discover the questions you didn't even know to ask. But if you if you focus on drilling down the

jurisdiction, you're going to you're going to cover a lot of basis. Did that? Did that answer the question? Yes. Thank

Susan Horst 26:43

you.

Russ 26:44

Okay, great. Then chugging right along David Kafka. You have a question about switching from BTC? Did you watch
the debate at the at the at the last meetup? Is that what happened or something come along? So tell us the
backstory? And then what's your question?

27:04

Yeah, no, actually, it's a little different. So by mahogany Bay syndication, that you did all the paperwork on ratio. We
were doing what 1313 units on five locks. But since I've been, you know, working there, I've seen some product that
looks really enticing. A lot more ROI. friendly. And I'm wondering, we're about to get to investors this week. So | don't
know, is it possible to change it from, you know, 13? Lots, and or 13 units on five, lots to, let's say, five? Lots, five units,
you know, and change the raise amount a little bit in the middle of the race?

Mauricio 27:59

Yeah, great question. And | think it applies. And I'll, I'll pull it back a little bit, too, because | think there's a couple of
good concepts. So the answer is yes, absolutely. In your case, you haven't even started to raise capital. So there's
really no reason why you can't go back and just redo the whole thing, however you wanted to do it and say, You
know what, forget about that one, I'm going to do this new thing and update all the documents. And then here's a
new kind of a new offering, almost, because you haven't accepted any money. So that's, that's the, it’s really easy,
that's at the beginning. It's also possible so | wanted to address this, like, even if you had accepted some investors
into your deal, it's not uncommon for the deal to change midstream. So you thought you could have possibly
accepted two or three or four, you know, we could have this conversation three months from now where you've
already have two or three investors. And then you're like, you know, what, | want to | need to change the thing, or
what's happening lately is the financing might change, you might want to bring in a private equity group, or you may
want to give an incentive to somebody wants to come in with a million dollars, and you want to give them different
treatments. So you want to kind of, you know, change the structure. And that would be obviously what we call a
material change. It's something that's changed from the original. When we first did the documents, and the first
investors came in this is this has changed significantly to the point where we consider it material. So if you want to
do that material, what we want to do is we want to go back to all of the investors that have already invested in the
Russ 06:39

Okay, well, that sounds very much like a Mauricio question. So I'm going to punt.

Mauricio 06:44

Yeah. So in your specific case, and so just for everybody has the context. Ben, you're doing assisted living, correct?

Ben 06:53
Yes, yeah.

Mauricio 06:54

So usually, with assisted living deals, the structure is a little bit different because unlike a traditional rental property
or commercial property, you actually have two separate things. One is the property itself. And then you also have the
actual business and in most of the time, we're doing those together. But some people do that separate. Some people
are in the business of just running the operations part and they're really good at the operation part. And they
actually just rent the property from from a landlord. And then other people do it together, we typically as
syndicators, | think most of the ones I've done doesn't have to be this way. But most of the ones we've done, we're
doing both right so we're raising capital to go purchase a property, adjust the property and turn it into an assisted
living facility rent out each room and the idea is we're getting much more rent from renting out all the separate
rooms for our for our care care people who need care versus just renting the house as a single family home you'd get
much less rent. So it’s purely an asset protection play that what we like to do is we like to separate the exposure so
what we do is we separate the property from the assisted living business because they're both high liability ventures
one is obviously a property so we know all the risks that go along with slip and falls or something happening in the
property that we talked about all the time. But as you can imagine, if you're in the assisted living facility and you're
you're dealing with fragile clients or fines residents, there's there's all kinds of litigation potential and an exposure on
the on the on the on the business side. So what we'd like to do purely for an asset protection purposes we'd like to
house quote unquote, how's the property is in its own LLC, it's let's call it the property LLC, just like we would in any
other rental property, and then we separate the business. So we have to have an operating LLC that runs the
assisted living property. And because we're doing a syndication, we need all the investors to come in and basically
own everything if that's if that’s the business model. Again, the business model may be different, but let’s assume the
business model is everybody participates in both the real estate and the business. So then typically, we create our
syndication LLC, or holding company, that would be the sole owner of both of those LLC. So | know it's hard because
I'm just kind of in the screen showing with hand gestures, but the idea is unlikely traditional syndication where you
may just have one LLC that owns the property, here, we're gonna have three LLC, because we have one that owns
the property, one that owns the operating company, and then the syndication LLC will own both. And for tax
purposes and distribution purposes. Everything is disregarded. So it just kind of all flows up to our master syndication
LLC, which then we distribute those profits to the investors. Kind of a long winded answer, but that's the only reason
we're doing that is separating that it's got nothing to do really from an SEC standpoint or a security standpoint. So
typically, because they're just really entities that we all control. Typically the manager, you the sponsor that's putting
this deal together. That same company that usually would manage the syndication LLC is also managing the other
LLC is | mean, they basically all belong together. And so it's the same manager and so, look to the extent that you
want to change the management, we would have to go back First question | would ask is what's what's the purpose
of changing the operating room and changing the manager? If you're changing a follow up for all three, and it's just
