watered down the return diluted the return. For everybody else, you might sleep better at night at an extra half a
million sitting in the bank. But that half a million isn't making a return so drags down the rest. So things do come up
on good deals and bad deals where you need more money, let's say that everybody invested $50,000, and you have
10 investors. So you raised $500,000, and you go to those 10 investors and say, you know, gosh, we have this
unexpected expense because of COVID, or because of the operator or because whatever the thing is, and we're
gonna need another $50,000. So because you each are 10th of the ownership of the of the capital, then that means
everybody's gonna put $5,000 in, so please send in your $5,000. And that's that. Well, seven people send in their
$5,000, none of them are happy to do it, but they get it. That's how real estate works. That's how life is and a
pandemic, they get it. So they send their money in, but three don’t. One is mad, and two just don't have the capital
because their business were they had a bowling alley in a restaurant, and they were shut down and COVID and have
no income. Okay, so your documents should provide for all of this in advance what happens, and there's usually a
couple of different ways that it can go. Many of the securities attorneys will provide for a promoter, the syndicator, to
have the first provider refusal, meaning if you can step in with the 5000, then that dilutes their share, if the seven that
put their 5000 in don't get diluted, because the new basis is up 50,000, everyone still owns the same 10% of that side
of the equation, we'll call those the A shares, they still own 10%, because they put the money in some documents
allow for you to step in with the 5000. And now you as the promoter, you now own that little sliver, that little
difference between the original 50,000 and the 5000. That becomes your investment. Other documentation allows
for anybody in the group to do it. So you have to typically go to the rest of the investors and say, thank you very
much those of you that were able to send in your $5,000, we had three people not able to send it in. And so if anyone
would like to put more money in the deal, that will increase your share and decrease their share. That's fair, but it
also is accounted for in your documentation. So no one should be surprised. And the way you started this is very
typical. By the way, we're in a deal we're going along Three years later, something happens we have to go back and
see what the documents say. If you always use the same same attorney and they always use the same documents,
then pretty soon you'll you'll learn what they say but it’s always a good idea to go back and read and see what it
says sometimes you also have a provision that says for healing any of those if none of the money can come in then
the syndicator has a right to go get a loan secure alone, the interest of which will probably be high because of the
security and will be paid for out of the group. So that would be a negative to everybody else. So Back to the reasons
the two folks don't have the money, there's not much you can do about that they’re gonna get diluted, and they
probably recognize it, the person that's upset has blamed you for the issue. And that’s more of a relation, ship issue
than anything else. And so you just remind them that, hey, you're on their side, it’s not you against them, you all own
this LLC together, and you all invested for the upside. And we still expect there to be upside, we just had this little
bump in the road called COVID, or whatever the thing was, and we've just got to get through it, we don’t have the
money. Now what does happen in reality, and most documents will account for this as it allows the promoter to step
up with the funds. And there's two ways you can do that it can be a loan. And as long as it's disclosed, you can earn
interest on it. Many promoters choose not to, if it's small amount, they just lend the project 18 grand and take it back
out, you know, before they make distributions, that's possible. But it’s also possible that you don't have the ability to
do it either, or don't have the desire to do it. So it really is very common that some do and some don't. In a perfect
world, everybody would, or anybody wouldn't. We had one deal that looked like it was going sideways, it turns out in
the light of day didn't go sideways at all, but it felt like at the time, and each of our investors to put in 60,000, that
was our minimum. And as you'll find out as syndicators, the vast majority of people will give you the minimum. So
whatever your minimum is, choose wisely. But everyone has $60,000, we needed another $7,000 per person. So if you
put in 60, we needed seven more to get to the next milestone in the deal. We had one investor out of more than 35
say we're, we're going to send you the money and nobody else did. Now this was in 2005, or six 2000. Now, | guess it
was in 2008. Right? Everybody was upside down. Everybody was in terrible situations situation. Yeah, we did the deal.
And oh five, we needed the money in 2008. terrible time to ask for money. And nobody wanted to do the deal. Well,
that ended up costing the whole group because we had an opportunity had we have done all paid the 7000, we
would have been able to do one more set of working in sold and a big profit, we weren't able to do that. And so we
fully disclose to everybody and reseau paper this for us, basically, a letter that said, we gave you an option to save
this deal. And you all agreed not to pay except for one person. And so what else can we do as manager and it was
written a lot better than that. But he basically laid it out there for people. And that was our get out of jail free card.

We almost just wrote the check. But we were having a sort of a time as everybody else in that time period. And now
JO

opportunity, which | firmly believe is on its way mature, we're gonna see giant bargains everywhere. But | think if
you're paying attention, | was on Victor manasses podcast, and he was talking about the difference between offense
and defense. And so many people are playing defense right now. And that could be a mistake. So good job. Yeah,

56:46

this property is probably worth $11.5 million. Three sound 370 square foot average commercial, it's 7.5 cap as is.
They're all triple net leases. One of them's a nonprofit that has government backing. So based on the cap rate in the
area, it’s 11.5 this other construction, so 1.5 and we're at like 7.5 so we're raising like 3,000,030% down have some
money to extra on the side. And then we're going to when the when the non for profit either leaves or we don't renew
their lease, we're actually going to make it extended stay hotels because it’s right across the street from the water in
Florida. And we're in safety harbor which is right across from Tampa Bay. So we'll be able to increase it to a like 11.5
12.5 cap by converting into extended stays for professionals and there's a medical school down the street so we're
going to be renting or staying by renting to those doctors. | currently have a 16 unit right next door and it's
generating a lot of money. So 36 more Oh, it's already has it wasn't a IF and converted into a private school as 36
beds with 36 bathrooms. So it would be an easy conversion to an extended stay. So the it would generate roughly
90,000 a month at a 65% occupancy so | could unconservative numbers it's gonna it's gonna do very well long term
in an area that you know they next door they bought the $25 million project the city just bought a tree that's like 500
years old for 1.2 5 million next door to this property that property overlooks it so it's very unique area with a lot of
wealthy people. So it's it's a, we're very confident on its long term ability to withstand the down market a down
economy because there's a lot of wealthy individuals there.

Robert 58:51

Awesome. Well, thanks for sharing, first of all, and secondly, what you just heard folks was elements of the story we
always talk about how important it is to have a story when you're raising capital. It's not just a building and a cap
rate and square footage. It's the story it's why you know the why behind the what and that's critical so we can hear
your music, not just your words. So that was awesome. Hey, we're about out of time. But let's do cover our upcoming
calendar. You probably know the secrets of successful syndication is coming up the last weekend of this month
March which you may not know is if you go to the website right now it says we're sold out. That’s because we have
233 people signed up in the high end where we're doing the event has room for 203 with current social distancing,
now the governor of texas just relax the mask mandate and there's all kinds of things happening but for now, as |
was getting ready to go on this call, | heard our registration coordinator talking with the venue and then working out
something but just know and the reason | want you guys to know that is a lot of you refer people and we love that.
But at the moment there's a waiting list. So They're interested get them on the waiting list. We're hoping we'll have
resolution and be able to think more people. It's good problem to be sold out. But we are sold out. Temporarily at
least, the mastermind. The next time we're going to get together as SMC we have an inner circle mastermind on
Friday and the SMC meetup on Saturday, that's April 23. And 24th. It's going to be in Dallas Fort Worth, we don't
have a location yet. But that seems to be a very central place for people to come we in the past have moved that all
around but have decided at least for now we'll we'll do it in Dallas, coming up may 21, and 22nd. Also in Dallas, how
to win funds and influence people. That's the two day workshop on sales. All three of those events are included in
your tuition. So please come, you have to RSVP. So we have room for you and beverages and those kinds of things.
But if you've not been to the sales training, or if you if you have | know you're going to be there if you haven't been,
this is awesome. Don't underestimate the power of spending two days with Russell on that. The investor summit is
June 11 to the 19th filling up nicely. We're about 75% sold, but there is room for you and SMC members to get some
cool stuff when you come to the summit that nobody else does it so you can find out more about that. And then | put
the New Orleans investment conference in here, just because it’s a cool event to go to and we're going to be there
exhibiting as Rifai, the real estate fund Alliance, which is kind of an alter ego brand, if you will, of SMC and SMC
members can go and run a booth. That's all independent real estate fund managers. So we have a banner and a
logo and all kinds of stuff. And if you're new to the club, this is an opportunity we look for is a place where we can go
out and talk to accredited investors. This is the old longest running investment conference in the US and it's 47 here
85% of the attendees are accredited investors. So don't come looking to raise money that probably will happen. But
the reason to come is to get educated and get into practice conversations with accredited and see what they're all
about. So that's it. That's all of the dates and make sure you have those on your calendar. And | think Ladies and
gentlemen, that is going to wrap up our call today. So thank you very much. And we'll do another deals and deal

structure call next month. Thanks, everybody.
Maybe that's an opportunity or who knows. But anyway, that gives you an idea, a little visual idea. Now let's talk
about how we structured this deal. And |, | stopped short of giving all the numbers because | thought we would get
lost. | can share some numbers with you. But | think to get the concept. We don't necessarily need the numbers. But
here's what we did. We had what we call our initial syndication. This was a small group of investors who came to bat
with some money to hold this opportunity. The market was strong, there was no way we were going to be able to

grab this land, do the work necessary and keep the land and have the time to raise the amount of money. You can
tell this is a pretty big project. That certainly was by our standards. So the first group The small syndication, if you
will, their job was to purchase the raw land, and to fund the initial design and entitlements. So no investor left behind,
you're going to design what you're going to do that cost some money architects and planners and so forth. And then
the entitlements to the permissions that you need in order to get the proper zoning and have the city and the county
and whoever else is involved by off on your project and say, yes, sometimes city council meeting those kinds of
things. Alright, so that's the first indication. And that takes some time. And we'll come back to that concept. Once
that work was all done. This is actually when we got involved. So that initial syndication was not a syndication that
my partner and | had anything to do with the project was brought to us as they were two years in to getting the
entitlements. This is a little suburb of Phoenix that had its challenges like every place did, and it took him some time.
And that's one of the key reasons you might consider staging a syndication, the idea isn't to make it more
complicated than necessary. But Follow me on this, if this group had raised all the money, to not only take down the
land and do all the entitlements, but then do all the construction and the marketing and the sales and the fit out of
the units, that money would be at work for a long period of time, total project time, about four and a half years, not
quite four and a half years, that's a long time to have money at work. And if the expectancy of return is high, that's
pretty dear money. So the primary strategy here was we don't need all the money at first, we just need enough to get
the land. And to do the work necessary the rest of the diligence to make sure we have the right project, that’s when
we need to raise the bulk of the money, get the construction loan, and so forth. So initial syndication, bought the
land did the entitlements in the design, the primary syndication, that's the syndication My partner and | were
involved with what we did is we purchased the entire land. So let's just talk about this for a minute. This was an arm's
length transaction, we had nothing to do with the first owner of the land, they bought it at a price. They did some
work, they brought in a lot of intellectual property, and they sold to us at a higher price. Is that fair? Well, sure, totally
fair, well, we paid was absolutely at or maybe a little below market value. Because we were looking for this kind of
property. This was our fourth office condo, and we really had a dial we went on to do a bunch of these. And so we
knew exactly what we could pay for land. And the price we paid was a good price. Now the reason | want to bring
that up. So the first group sells to the second group, that's the A and the B, the C in this scenario would be the folks
who buy the actual condos. But so the first group is the a group. That's the initial syndication, the second group, the
B group, the primary syndication. So sometimes, the syndicator is a part of both, we've done that the story that Russ
tells about our medical office project in San Antonio, Texas is exactly that. We were part of the A, we were part of the
B, we were part of the C, we were the syndicator and promoter for the whole thing. So the reason | bring that up is
there's one little issue. And that issue has to do with what we call the bump, the bump in price from Group A or group
B, my partner got so enamored of this deal, that once we split, he wouldn't did two more deals with a big old bump.
There's a one difference, though. And your honor, non disclosure, that one difference was his new company, they
didn't do anything to add any value. They didn't do any designer entitlements. All they did was buy the property
themselves at price a and sell the property at price B. Could you do that legally? Well, the answer's yes. As long as it’s
disclosed, if you disclosed your investors, we paid a million for it. Time has helped us and the market has helped us
and we've held it for a couple years. So we're gonna sell it to you guys at 1.5. Just so you know, that’s how it is right?
Yes. 2004 is when this was done. Thank you, Craig. So that's something you have to be careful of be aware of, in this
case, it was arm's length. So we were a different syndicator. And we verified this we had the property appraised with
the entitlements. We knew the market so we didn't feel bad about it at all. At the same time, even though we had no
duty to disclose. We did disclose because the folks who do this initial syndication were part of our development team
and we just wanted to be overly careful. So what is this syndication do everything else, it buys the entitle van, which
is a huge shortcut, and then it funds all bringing in all the utilities, MEP design, which is mechanical, electrical and
plumbing design, CDs, those are construction drawings, building construction, marketing, landscaping, pretty much
every Everything, the first group held the land and then got the entitlements and the design work done the
preliminary design work. So | mentioned construction drawings, those are like 200 pages of every possible thing you
of time. It’s a four year debt offering. Okay, well, everyone who loans money, knowing it's a four year debt offering is
expected to be paid back in four years, what you do after that is up to you. So with that, let’s start with Susan. Any
other questions or anything you want to talk about before we open up to the rest of the group?

©) Susan Horst 30:56

Well, | just want to make sure | understand. So when you talk about an exit strategy, you're usually talking about your

investors exiting, as opposed to you the syndicator exiting is that

@ Robert 31:09

Well, it depends and 90% of syndications, they happen at the same time, maybe more than 90% your typical
syndication is, you find the deal, you put together the team, you raise the money, you and the money come together
for the season, you sell or you know you revert and, and now you take your cards, and everybody's out of the deal.
That's the most common, but it doesn't have to be that way. What's extremely rare, is the syndicator accepting and
the investors staying and I've seen that happen one time. But that's, that's a lot more rare, you probably have a
different business structure, if you knew that was going to be the case. So generally, the person that is able to exit is
the passive investor, not one of the active partners. That happens, but it does and very often,

() Susan Horst 32:02

right? Okay, so if | say exit strategy, | have to be specific, because it doesn't necessarily mean my investors, | have to
say my exit strategy for my investors is my my exit strategy is

© Robert 32:19

because no one really, you know, we set these up in a structure where there were different classes or different
memberships. So let's say you have the eight members and the beam members, if you read a lot of executive
summaries, you would see that usually the promoter is the A and the investors of the B, there's no reason to do it that
way. It’s just letters. So we like to flip that around, we always like to make the investors the a class so that he shares
with a members because it feels better and where the B shares But either way, your documentation will explain what
the exit strategy is for the A and the B shares. Now, maybe the B share is just you. That's possible. And it’s no
different than it was you and or a company of 10 people, or you and three partners or whoever was on the beach
share the formative stage of the of the deal. But the exit strategy, what you have to address in your documentation is
when the investors exit, what happens to you? And at the end, the answer is typically, we're going to split the
proceeds in some method at 2050 5095, five, when we sell, then the capital accounts get replenished, meaning they
get paid back their initial investment, everybody put 100 grand in, they all get their 100 grand back, and then
whatever's left gets split and you're out, everybody's out. That's the most common. If you deviate from that in any
way, if your plan is to stay in or bring in new partners or any of that, then you just explain that in your operating
agreement and in your executive summary, and be prepared to answer questions about why that might be. Okay,
great. All right. Awesome. Well, let's get to some questions. If there's it could be questions about this particular topic
or what we've done in the case study or it could be general deal or deal structure question. So we'll start with anyone
who has a question about anything we've talked about so far today. And just fire away.

@ Janna Hubbs 34:22
on either it could be a private debt from a syndicator could be a hard money loan could be a bridge loan, you get
into the property, and your mission is to do the cap x, get the rents up managed better, get the noi up and then
instead of sell, you're going to keep the property and you're probably going to refinance because once it's stabilized
once it's performing better, you'll get a better loan at a better rate and makes better sense for long term financing.
Now within these, there still is the opportunity for the syndicator to have a different exit point than the investors and
so to cover that | want to talk about one more category, which is what we call staged syndication. What is a stage
syndication? Well, you might have taught her Russell and | talked about this as an ABC syndication. And the whole
idea is that there's an a group that does something for some period of time, there’s a B group that does something
else for some period of time. And there's the C group, that is probably the long term hold a lot of different ways we
could talk about that. And in fact, when we say that it’s ABC, it really could be D, E, F, and on down the road, but the
idea is that rather than just have a single entry point where we are buying the property, doing something in selling it
or buying it holding it for some period of time why throws off cash and then selling it. The plan is that there are
different entry and exit points now This isn't the full discussion about how you get rid of your investors per se and
keep up keep a property that's different, but it’s going to tie into the story here. So I'm actually going to do a little bit
of a case study on a development that we did where we employed this very methodology. So this is a project that we
called Ray Ranch, it's in Gilbert, Arizona, it today sits on approximately 12 acres 18 individual office buildings and
stay on the forefront of that picture. This was a project that my partner and | developed, very proud of this project. It
still stands there the day | had a chance to some of you know this story after we did our Kilimanjaro hike, my son and
|, we came back to Arizona because everybody else that hiked with us, we're all Kenny McElroy, his friends and we're
from Arizona, we're having like a get together dinner. And we stayed over that night. And the next day, our fight
didn't leave till the afternoon. And | asked my son Ethan, what do you want to do? And he goes, Well, don't we have
some property here? I'd like to go see it. Oh, my Wow, music to my ears as a dad. Yes, let’s not go watch some Marvel
movie. Let's go look at this, some of the stuff we built. So we had a chance to go through and they showed him this
very project. And the ID you can see here, it’s a fairly large piece of property, it’s 12 acres. And those buildings that
you see are all individual office condominiums. So when we purchased it, it was one single parcel. Actually, | believe
that's not correct. | believe we bought this in two pieces. But let's say for the sake of the example it was a parcel, it’s
just over 12 acres, | think 12.08 acres. And it's what we call infill, meaning all the land around it was developed. You
see up to the top, those are single family homes, they're really close to each other on either side is a school to the
right on the left is another development of townhouses and this parcel, these two parcels were available. And it was
perfect for what we what we did. So our plan was we're going to acquire the land, we're going to build these
buildings, and then we're going to sell them and maybe take one or two as our profit. But we're going to sell the
buildings to end users and the typical end user as a business owner that could afford their own building. This model
worked anytime we could go to a market and say, Mr. business owner for what you're paying right now to lease | can
show you how to own your own building. And that speaks a little bit quick aside to what you talked about Susan,
which is the idea of keeping the real estate investment separate from the business. As | go there today, about half of
the folks that we sold buildings to are still there, they're still there either operating the business, or they've sold the
business and still own the building. That's one of the reasons that you have multiple exit strategies. In this case, you
have kind of two different approaches, we often had medical and medically related attendance, a lot of our projects
are close to hospitals, this one not as much. But this is close to the one on one, which is one of the major loop free
rays in the Greater Phoenix area, easy to get to great location. And so the idea and we share this with prospective
buyers is that we'll show you how you can own the building separately from the business now costs a little more, and
you've got two entities to manage. But the big benefit is it allows you to sell one or the other. People always think
well, I'll sell the business and keep the property. And that's probably the most common but you could do the other
way too. You could have a stabilized rent in your in their in your new business for three, four or five years and you
want to get to some of that capital. You're the perfect tenant of in turn around and sell saying, Hey, | got a great
tenant, so | can work kind of either way. So back to our story. This is what it looks like today, where you see the arrow.
Imagine I'm standing right there on that corner. This is the pictures. So this is what the buildings look like it's a nice
landscaped community. This was taken last year. So that's more than 10 years after it was built happy to say that it's
still standing still vibrant, still beautiful. And at least you know, | think it's beautiful. But these are the kind of single
use buildings and you have some businesses. This particular one it wasn't | took this picture because | wasn't sure put

her member from when we developed it who it was and and they seem to not be open. I'm thinking Hmm, he did.
SVP OE TID Igy, WADIA EI y Were Se SE ey MHI EIS y GEIST re EMV yy, YUU Ny OY FIV SEIS PHIM yy YAS OY LEIS E TIVE EUI Sy

because they're, they're getting out of it also. But sometimes you want to keep the thing. And, you know, sometimes
you want to operate a business in addition to the real estate, and you're gonna do that, and sometimes your
investors are gonna do that or not, but they're gonna stay, you know, like, it seems like there’s multiple different
things that you have to

Robert 02:45

manage. Okay, excellent. Well, there absolutely are. And there's, they say, There's 100 ways to skin a cat. Not sure
why you want to, but there's lots of different ways to approach this. And for many of us, we syndicate a specific deal.
So we are raising money for this property at this address in this town, we're going to do this to it, why we hold it, and
then we're planning to exit in some period of time. So that’s a deal specific kind of syndication, the type of
syndication people do as a fund or a pool, sometimes called a blind fund, where we identify an issue or problem and
challenge in a marketplace, know that we can seek out that opportunity. But we don't have a specific property yet.
So we raise some money, or at least some commitment at a time to say, Hey, we're going to go take down the
following. People buy into that, and then you develop a fund. And it's not a right or wrong, those are two ways to do
it. But you bring up a really interesting third angle, which is sometimes you need investors help as a syndicator to get
to the next stage. And then at that point, either the investors exit you stand, or some of the investors exit and some
Stan, so we'll talk about that today. And so just kind of go through what some of the basic ways that you can
structure exit strategies. And really, there's kind of two categories that we'll start with and then we'll delve into all
kinds of permutations there. The first is if you're developing or rehabbing. This means that the primary purpose of
this syndication is the either acquire land and build like Randy and Jana are just about to start on, they've got the
land and they're putting everything together to start to build. So you've got development or you've got an asset that
needs to be completely restructured. The criminal shoes and advisory board member is in the middle of doing a big
repurchasing on a property right now is very excited about this and opportunities come about because of COVID. So
we take a property that either needs just some help and some work and some fixing up some modernization or we
have a complete reuse for it. So when it comes to either development or redevelopment there's kind of some basic
exit strategies. What the primary exit strategy is, is building stuff We're going to build this, and we're going to exhibit
it to the market. And we're going to either sell it as one apartment complex, or we're going to sell it as individual
condominiums or in some way, we sell the asset. Now, my history, I've done a lot of office condominiums, and our exit
strategy, our primary exit strategy. And | should discuss, anytime we start talking about exit strategies, you always
want more than one. But our primary exit strategy was to keep one of the buildings, our typical model, I'll show you
one here, before we're done was, you know, five acres of land eight buildings, and one of those buildings
approximately represented what we would expect our profit to be. So we would prefer to take a building than to take
cash. And for many of those developments, that's what we did. The other thing that we did is in most of you heard
the story of the syndication advantage that we offer these for sale or lease, even though the intention for the
syndication was never to lease it and hold it. But the building that we were going to keep, we would sometimes find
great tenants that way. So the standard way that the developers look at their entrance and exit strategy is to build
and sell. And this means you have to be a developer to do that. This could be anything as simple as a flip of a house
or two, up to some big value add or construction, where you're not doing the work. But the idea is of the syndication,
we're going to put money in, we're going to do something, and we're going to make a return. Now a quick aside
there, many investors have a hard time with this concept. The first eight or nine syndications that | did were exactly
this, people put their money in, they got zero cash flow for 18 or 24 or 36 months, then when everything was sold,
they got their money back with friends. And that's a perfectly acceptable way to invest. But a lot of folks, especially
those who have single family houses or multifamily apartments that thinking well wait a minute, there's no cash flow.
Well, during the construction, there's no cash flow on the very nature of development is there’s no cash flow during
development. So it's just a different type of animal, if you will. So build and sell is one certainly option, probably the
primary option for development or rehab, the other or another would be built in hold. And we kind of had a hybrid of
that, right, we would sell most of it, but hold some of it. But there are developers that syndicate deals, they go ground
up construction because of control, capturing profit margin, so forth. And their mission to their syndicated partners,
the deal will still be okay, it's not finished yet. And that was 2005. And it started. But it's gonna be okay now. But it
could have been really, really good, except everybody didn't. So it absolutely affects you cash calls affect you and
affect everybody else. So it’s a whole can of worms, we could probably spend day talking about it. But does that
answer your specific question? Are there more nuances?

Janna Hubbs 43:11

| have a little bit of follow up on that. So | totally agree with all of that. We have already put quite a bit of money into
that in instead of doing the cash call. So the team | guess, and | can prorate or | can go back on what and try to
guess on how much to raise | don't know with this particular project, when money will be coming in, you know, for
investors. And so how do you project what's the best angle to project based on the past, say three years of expenses
or two years of expenses? And then, of course, | would involve our attorney in helping to develop the documentation
for signatures and that type of thing. But would it be wise to have our CPA on that call? And in the process of that to
help analyze and with the total amount, or | guess that's what I’m trying to figure out? Who are the best people for
the team to help with that process? | can communicate to the investors, we have great relationships both Randy and
| do. | mean, that's a that is what we try to do. So. Does that make sense?

Robert 44:27

Yep. And again, that’s very real world. That is a common scenario. So here's the thing. You don't know you don't have
a crystal ball. Nobody knows. Nobody could have scripted. What's happened in the last 12 months, right. So some
businesses have done better. Some businesses have done worse. In this case, you don't know but | will tell you a
couple practical things. One is not everyone's going to do it. So let's say you absolutely need 100,000 you better ask
for 150 because if you ask for 150 and everybody shares that percentage In this case, you know, that's 10% 10,
owners at 10%, everybody needs to send in $15,000. And you only get, you know, buy in from seven, well, seven times
15,000 gets you the money you need are pretty close. So, so ask for more than you need because again, whatever
the balances sits in the account and becomes contingency money or gets returned once the cash starts flowing in
the right direction. So that's the first thing is you always ask for more than you need. Just because there's going to be
certain situations that maybe have nothing to do with the deal they had to do with the investor, that now they're just
not in a position to do it. You know, gosh, we just bought a car, we just we're in the middle of a refinance, we can't
move any money or we have a wedding Saturday, or whatever it is, they can't come up with the money or they need
more time, only you don't have more time. So you do your best guess in terms of estimating what it'll be, and why
have a rationale around it. And then in your communication, need to prepare them that this may not be the last time
while we hate to have to come to you for this money. It's much better than the alternative. And the truth is, we might
need a couple more years of ballast. And rather than ask for that now, we're just going to ask for this much now. And
just know it's possible that we come back, we hope we don't have to, we hope this is enough. We think it'll be enough.
Right? You're not promising, you're not guaranteeing we think it'll be enough. It’s not you'll hear from us. Again, if it is
you'll hear from us, we'll let you know we'll we'll bring it back up to speed. So the other part of you mentioned
bringing in your attorney, | don't know that the CPA needs to be involved at all, | almost think not. Because by having
a CPA on the calll, it almost gives credibility to your number. And if your numbers just a guess, then | don't know that
you gain anything by having your tax person, they're all going to have their individual tax people so but the attorney,
you want the attorney to be able to craft whatever the form is that you're going to use to collect these funds, you
don't just tell people to wire money, you make sure that they have signed and the attorney will provide this form for
you. And the acknowledgement if they don't this is the most important part, this is what saved us in the deal | was
referring to earlier as they all had to sign either that they were sending in the money, or they acknowledge that not
sending in the money put the project in jeopardy. And they had to pick one or the other they were we there was no
non answer you had to do. And finally, if you didn't, you would get the Legal Notices. And we'd strong your arm and
strong arm you into doing it. So you you are going to seek your counsel to provide whatever color around it and
make sure that you're legally covered, it's going to probably refer back to the operating documents, it's going to
explain this is a cash call, in addition, and it's going to increase their capital account, meaning again, the cap
accounts the money that was theirs, they put 100 grand or in this case, | mix in numbers, but they put in 50,000, now
they're going to put in another you know, eight, 510, whatever the amount is 15,000. Whatever those numbers are, it’s
gonna explain that that this is an increase in their capital accounts. So they get that money back first, before any
split is made, you know, you don't participate in that as the sponsor any of that. So you want to have that prepared
and you want to work with the attorney, they don't have it sound too ominous, like, a lot of attorneys are going to
make sure you're protected beyond what you need to be protected and make it reasonable. So they get it, these are
your partners, they're investing alongside you. They aren't the enemy, you aren't the enemy are all in this together.
And you know, most of us are also in the B's in the A side, in addition to being the B side or the promoter side, most
of us also put money into our deal. So as far as that money, you're exactly even par with them. So you really can be
empathetic to it. But | think that's the process is ask for a little more than you need to make sure you have a form

blessed by your attorney. When you collect the funds and you get those signatures, right.

@) Janna Hubbs 49:01

JO

Oh, that's that’s perfect. Robert, thank you. And | really appreciate you addressing the CPA, because | was thinking
well, do | want to do | not? Maybe | should. So | think you clarified perfectly that information. And | have to agree

with you on that. So thank you very much for the well | mean,

Robert 49:18

certainly it's just my opinion, but | think we have the cards we can play when we need our tax professional to show
up and | just think of all the times that you're asking that's maybe not the best best time it’s always How does it look
you know, in court was the CPA on the call. Well yeah, their CPA was on the call right? You don't want that. No, it was
an estimate it was a guess. We hope it'll be enough money. If it's way too much. We'll send some back. If it's not
enough. We're gonna have to call again. Sorry. | mean it's not it’s the worst thing in syndication as the cash call still
worst thing. But sometimes it has to be done and other times it's good that it's done because had you have raised
more at the beginning would dilute To return. So that gets us over some bumps and things. It also lets you know, you
know who's with you. | don’t mean to write the check there with you. Sometimes they begrudgingly write the check,
but through the correspondence in the conversation, you get to know if they're with you or not. You know, we've had
deals affected by COVID, for sure. And most of our investors have been great about it, like everybody understands.
So what what can you do? There were people back in, you know, 2008 that thought Russ and | single handedly
destroyed the phoenix arizona market. Okay, well, | don’t think we have that kind of power, but that's what they
thought they became haters. Okay, get over it. You know, you can't please all the people all the time, but you do
want to do your very best, obviously in nurturing prospects that are going to lead to more business and referrals.
Okay, who else has a question of any kind? | guess in our few, seven minutes are related remaining on deals. Let's see

if anybody has a question.

51:07

| have a question.

Robert 51:09

Okay, excellent.
Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Deals and Deal
Structure with Ro...

@ Fri, 10/22 11:18AM © 1:02:33

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

syndication, investors, money, property, deal, building, syndicator, people, exit strategy, sell, lease, buying, entitlements,

question, fund, exit, raise, land, project, business

SPEAKERS

Robert, Janna Hubbs, Susan Horst

© Robert 00:17

Well hello syndication mentoring club It is our monthly ask the mentors q&a call deals and deal structure for March
2021. I'm Robert Helms, glad that you're here. Hopefully you're finding these calls to be a benefit whether you're on
live, which is always preferred, or if you're listening back, I've had some good comments from folks that heard the
recordings from the earlier calls like this. And some of you were on the call maybe yesterday and recio. So we're
trying to get as many ways out to to reach folks who are part of our club. And before we're done today, we'll maybe
talk about some of that as well. So how this call works is you can submit your questions in advance, or if there's time,
we just kind of take open questions. So today, we're going to start with a question that we had that Susan asked, I'm
going to paraphrase this or read this who's and because this is what | was sent, and then before we delve into it, we'll

just clarify. First, | think, Susan, your new members that right? Now, you have to unmute yourself.

© Susan Horst 01:26

Yes, I'm brand new.

© Robert 01:28

Excellent. Well, you've been to some of our events, and so forth. So welcome aboard. Glad to have you. I'm gonna
pop over here into speaker mode mode so that we can see some of the slides that are prepared, Susan said, Can |
please have a primer on the main ways that syndicators structure their exit strategies? So that is a great question,
Susan, when we look at a deal, we have to know how we're going to get in how and when we're going to hold and
how we're going to get out. So before | kind of dive into my answer, is there anything you want to clarify about your,

your question today?

© Susan Horst 02:04

Um, well, | think you'll probably hate it, but what I'm wanting to see the differences, some people want, help buying

cameathina and thav want aut af it and thav than it's anew vai knaw ta aive tha manav hack ta thair invactare
need to know, for a general contractor to build the building. Design is just Hey, we'll put these many buildings here.
And this is about the square footage. And these are kind of the floor plans, right, so two different things. But the first
group did just that initial part. And the second group, our group came in, and we did all the rest, and we sold the
buildings out. And happily, our investors made more than a 20% annualized return. And we made a lot of money as
well. So it was a win all the way around. But it was broken up into two pieces. And | don't even know that they were
going to, you know, plan to find us it was kind of a long story, this probably was going to be a two step syndication
that they had planned to do. But it worked out well. Because we were, we were there. So | bring that up. Because one,
it's a real story. So it’s a case study. But two, it shows the idea of separate entrance and exit points. It turns out that
the guys who took down this land, were able to get a loan on it. And that’s pretty rare to get a loan or a loan on Raw
land, like raw no skirt, streets or gutters, though improvements, no utilities, just raw land. But they've been in the
business a long time great relationships. And that allowed them to leverage to a point where their investors made a
very nice return, it was just over two years that they were in it we were in and about two years. So again, just under
four and a half years total. But to write it out all the way with the bulk of money that we had to raise would have
diluted the return. So by structuring into different pieces, in this case, just the A and the B, it made a ton of sense. So
there are other reasons why you might want to structure it with exit and entrance points. We had one that we did,
where we had a gentleman who wanted to come out of a 1031 exchange, you need a big chunk of money. Now
normally, you wouldn't turn a syndication into a 1031. But it was enough money. And he really had this problem that
we said, okay, well, we'll 1031 in that we'll give him not only the exchange, but a chance to make some money during
that entitlement stage. And then he's going to have to exit, but the rest of the people who came in at that a stage
decided to stay in. So it is possible going back to the ABC model that any of your investors could be think of like
angel investors at the age group, they're with you, they're your closest investors, they're going to do the first phase,
then you move to that B group in the case study | just told you about. In this particular case study, there were no
common investors between the initial syndication and what I'm calling the primary syndication, there were no
common investors, everybody who propped the money got out at the turn, doesn’t have to be like that, you can
structure it so that investors have the option, we have kind of a long term development deal where we figured the
whole thing was gonna take us five years. And it took almost that, but there was different phases. Rather than have
one group, take it down, get the work done, sell to another group from the beginning, we engineered it beginning
within their mind, hey, we only need a few $100,000 for the first year. So those are the angel investors, all handpicked
and invited people that have been in our deals before, and they got a very, very good return, they also arguably took
the most risk because there was very little done when it started. Without exception, every one of them moved into
phase two. And in phase two, we had to bring in a whole bunch more money. And at phase three, some of those first
investors actually exited, one of the second investors exited, and we brought new money in. So it's a creative way to
look at a problem and solve it with these milestones. Having said that, | would caution you of getting too creative
here. If your deal doesn't need to be split up for any of the reasons we've talked about. Or another reason we might
consider, then | wouldn't do it. | don't think there's any reason to just throw in the ABC model unless you need it or
what we're calling your stage syndication. style. One more thing, and | will turn it over to your questions and
comments. And that is, Susan talked about the idea where you bring investors in for a season, whatever that looks
like. And at some point, you want to own the property. Can you do that? Well, of course you can. It all has to be
disclosed. Eric Shelley, one of our inner circle members is doing that exact thing right now. His investors come in for a
timeline, they get a bunch of tax benefits, and then he doesn't make much money. But what happens is when they alll
exit, he gets whatever's left. And that’s a way to do that. And there's reasons to do that. Of course, that's can be a
hard sell when you're explained to your investors. Yeah, you guys are gonna profit for the first seven years and then
see you later and it's all me. Again, the story has to make sense. Here's why it makes sense. Now, | don’t see Eric on
today. We're not going to put him on the spot and ask but you can certainly talk to him about that the next meetup
about why He structured it that way. And it works. He's, as you may know, raising 10s of millions of dollars and
providing lots of great tax benefits to people. And he’s got no problem finding people to fund the deal makes a ton
of sense, even though they all know that | think it’s 10 years and they're out and Eric stays in. So there are reasons to
do that. Sometimes this is the way someone funds a business operation. You want to start a business through
syndication, but you don't want those partners forever. You just need a preseason. Okay, perfectly fine. As long as the

market will bear it. It works often in the debt world when you're syndicating a piece of debt. And it’s for a fixed period
JO

51:12

So, Robert, | am in the process of buying a $7.5 million commercial property. It's 7.5. Cap 31,000 square feet. It’s three
stories. A couple questions. One, I'm probably two weeks in to the contract. So | have about another 10 weeks to
close. | wanted to see one who did you think was a good real estate attorney to draw up the syndication documents?
And then to with the triple net lease, because all the tenants are in triple net leases? How would you go about with
the issue of their current cam is about $5 a square foot, and it's roughly going to go to $7 a square foot when the
taxes property taxes go up? According to the according to the p&l, they're only collecting 2% for management

should be 4% for management. And so let's start with those questions. Okay, Eric, what is your, you know? Yeah, so

Robert 52:22

basically the premises when you take over an existing building, and there's tenants, whether they're month to month
residential tenants, or long term commercial tenants, your new ownership is subject to those leases, very hard to get
out of a lease as the new owner of a building. It happens in bankruptcy, it happens in foreclosure, but for the most
part, you're buying it. This isn't the terminology, but it's the way to think about it, you're buying the property subject
to those leases, meaning that is the income. If your plan is we're going to increase the income or we're going to do
capex or that’s all going to happen after these leases and any options they may have. So it’s critically important
when you buy a property that isn't month to month, has long term leases, and especially commercial leases, that you
have a chance to review those leases and see what's in them because not only are you subject to the lease, you can't
change it. So if the lease says it's a 2% management, and you as the new owner says that's not enough, you're
probably stuck with 2%. Now with cam charges, common area maintenance charges and triple net charges. Well,
though that's the lease is written that that’s the whole beauty of a triple net property, meaning that they're you
know, they're responsible for those costs. When those costs change, whether it's utility or property tax, then they pay
their share. So that's why you want to review the lease carefully. And in terms of attorneys, it may be a different
attorney that you use to review the leases, then does your syndication. You know on our advisory board is Marisa
Roald. He's a California licensed attorney. But he works on federal law primarily so he can help people in kind of any
jurisdiction, he does work for us all over the world. But he’s a securities attorney, all he does is syndication. He
understands asset protection, but he’s not going to form entities for you, you'll have to take a look at your structure.
He's probably not the best guy to go through leases either that’s probably a tenant landlord attorney in the state the
property's in, but it’s probably worth that little extra. | would start yourself you know, you read the lease and if it's
clear, and if it’s in English, and if you understand and if you're certain you're probably okay. But if there's any
questions, especially around companies, areas where there may be changes involved, then, you know, a few $100
spent for an attorney to review would be would be good. But again, big picture is you're not going to change it,
you're stuck with the lease for the most part. Now some leases do provide for change to be made with proper notice.
So as the new owner, our practice is always as the new owner to reach out to the tenants as soon as we've closed
and say hello and enter douce ourselves and explain why we're why we love the property why we decided to move
ahead and, and how we want to interact with them going forward. It's always very, very upbeat. And then we're
looking for where those are in their lease agreements that what the notices there’s typically a noticing period, if
anything were to change, it’s a 60 day notice or a year notice sometimes in long leases, so | try not to hit him out of
the gate with that, Hi, I'm a new landlord, and here's your notice that your fees going up. It’s just not usually a good
way to play that relationship, especially if you got long term, folks, but you're going to have that conversation at
some point. If in fact you have the ability and in the lease it says that with 90 days notice the landlord can change
the terms as far as the common area maintenance or whatever it is, then you have that right and you give them
proper notice and and and you move on so review the existing leases, see what you can and can't do. Generally
things like cam charges are what they are. So you're usually not hurt when that when those changes get made. But it
really comes down to what is the what is the lease say? Awesome. Thank you anymore. All right. Well, that's exciting
deal, man. Good job. Good time to be buying. We're done. | did a talk over the weekend about the upcoming buying
Robert, did you get my question that | submitted? | did not get your question. No, | did it early this morning.

© Robert 34:29

Oh, no, they sent this out to me last night.

@) Janna Hubbs 34:33

Oh, okay. Then I'll wait until | can until you move to new questions.

© Robert 34:39

Okay. Does anybody have a question regarding the structure extra strategies we've talked about? Our All right, I'm
going to go into gallery mode so we can see you alll. If that was helpful, what we just did raise your hand like this.
Just raise your hand if it was helpful. Okay. Good. Just trying to decide, you know, because that's something that

people wanted to know. Okay, so let's go ahead and and take general questions and Janice since you had one fire
away.

@) Janna Hubbs 35:11

Alright. So when we have a syndication, which we have, and I've looked at the operating docs, and the operating
Doc's, we say we need to do a cash call which we are looking to do that. Yep. And it isn't that the investment is a bad
investment. It's an awesome investment. But we need to probably do a cash call, of course there the small paragraph

in our operating docs to allude to that but my question is, and | asked it yesterday with Russ, and he deferred it to
today is what?

@) Robert 35:54

We lost you there. Right, what you said, the question is,

@) Janna Hubbs 36:02

you know, that type of thing, and then you can bring in, if you if, say, you've got a percent, or say, maybe three out of
the 10 investors that you have in a particular syndication deal, that do not want to participate or cannot, for some

reason, then that can be offered, you know, yada, yada. So, who needs to be on the team? And what's the best way
to deal with that? | guess, All right,

@ Robert 36:27

great question. And it happens all the time. So you should have in your documents the provision for what happens if
the deal needs more money, we try to have enough buffer in the beginning enough miscellaneous or contingency
money that we can cover, you know, some things but you don’t want to put too much contingency money in or

otherwise, it's just like we talked about in the case study, you have too much money that you've collected, now you
the investors isn't that we're gonna turn around and sell this thing in two years, it’s we're gonna hang on to it, we're
building our own inventory for the production of income. So that's, that doesn’t happen as often. But sometimes,
developer, a builder, even just a person or group that owns a bunch of apartments sees that, wow, if we could acquire
land and build, we could capture some margin, and we could get out by not actually getting out by just holding
beyond that there's lend and exit at sale. So you can raise money, not necessarily to be equity in a deal. But to be the
lender magine, you raise the fund that was going to loan against construction, | think week after next, I’ve got an
interview scheduled for the radio show with a guy that helps people find opportunities to lend to builders. So you
develop a fund, and it's a specific purpose, you say, this is the property, this is what we're building, what the
syndication is going to do is not sit on the equity side and hope we make money, we're instead going to loan a
million or 2 million or $10 million to the construction company or to the developer, and based on that, we'll be able to
see, you know, a return for sure. So we've got some people joining us, so we'll just let them in here. So land and exit at
sale is another way you can structure your exit strategy, that we're going to loan the money and when the products
get sold, we're going to exit or it could even be lend an excellent refinance. So sometimes there’s an opportunity for a
syndicator to raise some money that the developer needs at the most precarious time of their development, meaning
that it's land, it doesn't have enough secured value to secure the loan that they're going to need when the buildings
are all built. So it's got enough value with the plans and all of that to get some sort of loan. But it’s not typical
collateral making it difficult even for construction loans sometimes. So you can turn to a private investor, in this case,
a syndicate that puts together the money recognizing what the plan is, and their plan is going to be to get bought
out at the refinance. So those are just some of the ways that you might structure development or rehab deal. I'll
move along and then we can take some questions about this. A lot of us syndicators don't do ground up

development or rehab. They just buy a stabilized asset. So you find a great apartment building or retail strip center
or some thriving growth going concern. Now when | say stabilized, it doesn't mean that it’s perfect the fat cow where
all the tenants are paying right at the top of market, have you found that you'd probably not have a big ROI because
somebody else fatten the cow up, if you will. What | mean by stabilized is the plan is not to knock it down or rebuild it
or any of that, it’s just to hang on to the asset. So the first exit strategy, there is what we call CTL, that's cash throw
off, the whole purpose of this property is just a throw off cash, cash throw off long term production of income. And
that's obviously a fairly common primary strategy, we're going to buy an apartment complex, and we're going to let
it just cash flow. Well, that can work and lots of people do that, again, we always want multiple exit strategies. But
another idea might be we're going to grow the income long term, and then we're going to exit after appreciation.
How long is your typical hold time? Well, if your mindset is we're never gonna sell, that's different than if your mindset
is, hey, we're gonna get in and the next five to six years, we're gonna look for exit. So somebody needs to maybe
mute their mic who isn't? Okay. So it would be quite possible for your plan to be, you know, what, the property's print
running pretty well. But we're going to get the rents up a little bit, we're going to refine management a little bit, bring
in some systems, we'll have cash flow for, say, five years. And if we do our job, right, and if the market cooperates,
then our exit strategy is going to be to not just sell the property, but sell it based on its appreciation. So if you're
going to model that, say, that was your plan, you found a property that you knew was in the path of progress and a
little bit of work, but it was mostly a fattened cow. But looking at the market, and where you see demand and job
growth and all that happening, like if we held this thing for five years, | bet the price will go up, maybe the multiplier
will change. And that'll be in our favor. And that was your plan. Well, that’s your plan, then you've got to, in your
business plan, your executive summary, state your assumptions. So it's not just based on cash flow, but it’s based on
our appreciation component. A lot of people use this term IRR, internal rate of return, the real estate guys use what
we call total return, which just means all the return from all the various ways we make money in real estate. But it
could be that for you, you're looking at a deal that is going to you're going to hold it for a period of time for five, six
years, and then you're going to exit after appreciation. Now another way is a cap x opportunity. And that stands for
capital expenditures, that’s when we do find the opportunity to do some work and increase the value. So maybe it is
the ugly duckling in the area, or maybe it's a, you know, 1970s building that nothing has been done to from the
exterior interior, other than just paint and carpet for many years. So there’s an opportunity to, you know, do some
work. So you would be able to increase the net operating income, and based on that increase in net operating
income that you would sell. And again, in that case, everybody exits at once. And we will get to this idea of how do
you exit what some people exit, some people don't. And then what we call a flipping hold. Now flipping hold is not

flipping in the rational sense, it’s what we call flip the financing and hold the asset. So you get into a property based
