said, we're at that stage where it’s just this is got to get our first one under our belts and trying to make it happen in
a way that we all of us can walk away winning and be ready for the next one.

Robert 38:25

Yes, | have one more out of the box idea. But before we talk about that, also, when it comes to being in position to
qualify for a loan, if you end up going option two, and you're going to do without financing, approach it as though
there were financing mean construction draws that come from the syndication company, just that discipline. If you
don't understand that we can talk further about that. You want to make sure you're getting appraisals done. Even
though you don't really need an appraisal, because you've got all the money. It's just a third party, inexpensive check
and balance, right. So operate as though they were alone in it. For sure. You want to completely categorize
everything, keep your expenses as though you were keeping them for a lender and document the whole thing.
pictures at every stage. So now when you sit down with a lender, you don't even say, Oh, we did the first one for cash.
You sit down with lenders, let me show you the project we just completed. Here was the dirt. Here’s the plans. Here's
what we built. These are the smiling tenants waving in front of the finished house. Is this a beautiful kitchen? Right? It
says you've done it, and that’s the experience they're looking for is they want to guide it's done it. So make sure you
always want to do that. But especially if you're starting with in this regard. Okay, what's another way to do this?
Here's the other way you can do it. Rather than say we got to raise all the cash is a big heavy lift, and then get in a
position to be able to be credit worthy. Instead, you could do two raises. You can do Your equity Angel equity raise,
and you can do a debt piece to loan the construction loan a construction lenders not typically going to make
anywhere near as much as an equity investor is. So we talked about the capital stack, that's all the money needed to
do the deal by buying a house to capitalstackers, my down payment, and the bank's loan, pretty easy. But in
development, construction is all parts of the capital stack, you may be asking the land owner to carry some funding,
if so they're going to have to agree not to be in first position. So the construction lender is going to be insist on being
in first position. So pretty common that if you were going to do that, if you were going to get the land owner to carry,
that's a great way to not have to raise as much equity. And yet, they wouldn't have to we call it subordinate, they'd
have to subordinate to the first position loan, then you might have a mezzanine loan, you might have a revolving line
of credit, there's all kinds of things you might do to get the money for your construction project, the most expensive
of all is your equity, your equity is demanding return. Now there's a whole group of people that don't think that way
they don't think | want to bet on the column and build houses with you guys. They're like, you know what, | have an
IRA that I'd like to just get quarterly deposits into our | have a big chunk of money, because they're still my business.
And now | just want to turn into monthly payment. So it may be that you do two raises, you do a debt raise, which
you only need until you're able to fund it through banks or other lenders. And then you do an equity raise, and the
folks in the equity raise right all the way through. So their upside comes not from the first couple of houses, but from
being an early and often. Whereas the lenders, they’re only in it for a short period of time, we saw lots of this, you
know, last time we had a housing boom, there were a lot of opportunities for folks to raise money to loan privately to
builders, not even developers, but builders, again, don't ever have any money. And they would loan the money for
four to six months, because that's what it takes to build, the builder doesn't need all the money on day one. Right?
That's the construction drop part, you figure out how much they need. So in hindsight, typical, you know, $100,000
might be lent out two or three times over the course of a year. And the interest rate might be 10, or 11%, times two, or
two and a half or three, right, that becomes pretty attractive. So I'm not suggesting you need to pay a lot in this fund.
I'm suggesting instead, you if you're buying it for cash, still cash, its cash, some from the debt pool and some from
the equity investors, you're buying it for cash. And so you've got great collateral, the equity isn't getting collateral, the
lenders get all the collateral. And it could be at a very, very conservative loan to value 60% or 50% or 70% loan to
value. And the interest rate could be a lot higher than what they could get anywhere else like you know, screeching
high four and a half or five and a half percent. And you could pay monthly if you had to, you'd rather pay quarterly
but you could pay monthly if you had to. So that would just be another out of the box way to do it to do two raises a
raise for the equity raise for the debt. That's one way to circumvent the need for the traditional lender to see years
and millions of dollars worth of experience and on your side.
definitely want to be represented by SMC the average snow that that’s a win is that October the 23rd. And we're
going to flip flop SMC in inner circles. We have some inner circle members and could certainly have some watching
the replay. We're gonna do inner circle the next day on the 24th. Normally we do inner circle first, but then we just be
doing a circle for you know a dozen of us and make all the mentoring club members. Wait a whole day in New
Orleans, that would suck. Anyway, it’s a great place we have a lot of fun, I'm going to guess for be able to get a guest
or two from the conference to hang out a little bit with us the next day. So that’s going to be a lot of fun. So make
sure you have that in your plans for October. With that, we'll wrap up our call. Thanks, everybody for being part of
our deals and deal structure call for May 2021. And we'll see you next time.
wouldn't this be nice? They go, | have no use for that at all. or something else really well, now, where's this? You're like,
well, we weren't gonna have that. Oh, you have to have that right. So you get great information that way. Now, you
can also overthink that thing, right? If I'm, you know, rehabbing a four Plex, there’s not much I'm going to do with the
size of those units. Right, | might figure out a couple little amenity sets or a level of upgrade to match the tenant
demand. But there's not a lot I'm going to do. But this is intriguing. And in case you guys haven't noticed, Kyle may
not be the only one who is discovering, there are a lot of hotels and motels that are functionally obsolete. And all of
that has been exacerbated by the pandemic with less travel. We're in the middle right now. This week. Our podcast is
the first in a three part series on hospitality and where the opportunity is in hospitality and really came to us based
on the interview we did with Danielle DiMartino booth a few weeks back where she said, travel is bifurcated. There's
business travel, which may never come back to its former glory. Companies have figured out how to use zoom and
other technologies to at least do some of their business. A lot of big conferences and conventions have gone virtual
and found it's a lot less expensive. And people seem to be happy and they make more money. So her son her
opinion. But | would say her suspicion is that business travel may never come back to the what it was. At the same
time. She thinks hospitality and leisure have a huge pent up demand. And that history shows us people will always
always, always figure out a way to go on vacation. So that thought has got us thinking wow, okay, so we've got three
different guests talking about three different diverse product types within hospitality. But as you think about what do
you do, like the the big problem we had to solve 15 years ago was what do you do with an empty mall? All these
malls that were built in the 70s and early 80s that were no longer in great shape and didn't have good tenant base.
What do you do? And there's been lots of great clevers, you know, solutions there. That could be a whole talk. But
what do you do with a 72? unit? airport hotel, two and a half stars, no restaurant, just little kitchen area where they
serve breakfast muffins. What do you do with that? When the market needs housing, and it could be a really fun
puzzle to solve. All right. Anything else for Kyle on this topic before we move along? Okay, then Scott, Florida, we had
a little discussion and how to win funds and influence people and | see you submitted your question today. There's a
lot to it. So if you're up for it, I'd rather have you presented to the group by and then me out. Read your handiwork.

Scott Florida 19:57
Okay, very good. Well, hey, thanks again. Doing this Hey guys, it's good to see you all, Chloe's here with me and my

colleague, we're just trying to see if we can keep bumping along. So the syndication that we're looking at is single
family homes, new bills in Florida. And we are trying to figure out how to move ahead with that. Originally, as | was
talking to lenders, | was under the impression that | could do about a $3 million deal, raise, you know, the percentage
we need, and then borrow the rest on a non recourse loan and be able to be the sponsor for it without any other
people involved. So that was the original thought. And then we got into the building piece of it, and the fact that
we're going to be new builds. And it's starting to look like, we’ve got two options, which are, because I'm not a builder,
| don't have experience building, we can either bring out a builder, and we'd have to figure out how to compensate
them for that role. And it sounds like we would need some of their credit, as well, they would have to sign on like the
loan for the construction loan. Or we can try to do all cash build, and raise the money. So like we were thinking, you
know, on a $3 million deal, you'd need 800,000 to a million to raise. And then you know, you could borrow the
remainder, this approach would be to raise the same amount of money, but then build instead of 15, you'd build for
five and cash refi that out, and then try to do it again, with the money that you pull out, and then hopefully establish
enough experience with that, to possibly even move then from there to get the loan. So once we one lender told me,
if you built five, then we'll count that as an experience and then give you a construction loan. So I'm not sure how
accurate that is. But that so those are the things that are on the table, as far as ways to move forward. And | was just
wondering, what do you think of those, or is there another way that I'm not thinking of, so that we can just, you know,

we got kind of a lot of the groundwork laid, and now it’s a matter of picking the deal and going.

Robert 22:17

Alright, great synopsis. And this is just one of those situations, when you're taking a jump up in your career of any
would benefit when you build this house, the next house, all the houses, maybe it's a reputable property
management company. Sometimes those folks are credit worthy. So just wrack your brain about who on the
potential team. | mean, yeah, you can lease a balance sheet. You can have someone you just pay him a big fee. I've
done that a couple times people have said we you just sign on the loan. And for the right person under the right
circumstances. Yes. And I've received compensation for that. I'm not really in that business anymore. But for a while
that was kind of a fun way to get involved with the project, make some money in a project not have any real skin in
the game. | mean, there was skin in the game because | had a balance sheet edge. But | wouldn't have done that if |
didn't one believe in the project, and even more importantly, to believe in the operator, right. And those were all
great opportunities, cost them a little bit. They didn't make as much profit because they had to pay me some but you
know what it was worth doing? Because they got it done. And they were able to then move on, especially if you find
someone like that you got to be upfront. Hey, here’s my dilemma. And | wouldn't doubt anything other than that
from you, Scott. But here's what here’s why we need help, and we're willing to pay for it. And you tell us what's fair.
And if they go | want 80% of all the profit. Okay, that’s probably not fair. If they say I'll do it for a flat $25,000.10 cent
percent of the profit. Okay, that might be now do be prepared for this. Even though you're going to find a partner
who signs on the line, as far as the banks concerned, they have the wherewithal, | would be absolutely amazed if that
person didn't require a separate indemnification from you. What that means is that your agreement says that no
matter what happens, you're going to take the hit not them. Now you may not have the financial wherewithal and
they know that a if it all falls apart or you get hit by a bus while they're there hung out to dry but most times when
we have somebody step in it was really a Principle, they either want to principle participation, which is a possibility,
or they want to be indemnified, which just means they're off the hook, they're not legally indemnified from the loan,
you're saying, as the general partner is the syndicator, the promoter, that you're going to densify them from loss,
which basically says, it’s on you either way. So that would be scenario one is finding a partner. Let's talk about
scenario two. Because scenario two could be more interesting, where you raise enough money to do the first five,
pick a number houses without financing, because single family houses tend to get built quickly, the velocity of money
could be good. In other words, you could run through the money more than once in a year. So maybe the return isn't
bad, but actually pretty positive for that group of folks. And it could be the very same syndication, we're going to
raise a million dollars, the first million, we're going to buy five houses, we're going to refi out of those, keep the
houses, and then we're going to still have cash to back from the refinance, to now go and do some more of these
houses with credit. That's possible. If you're going to do that, then you can't be squishy about the loan qualification,
meaning you need to get a commitment from the lender that if you do that, you will then be in a position to be loan
worthy. And | wouldn't just talk to one lender about it, | talked to at least three. And the lenders who do these kinds
of deals are not the same lenders, we typically borrow from when we're, you know, doing agency loans and bigger
stuff. These are local banks. And a local bank can be a great, great, great advocate, I've had super success using
local banks, couple things about local banks, they're somewhat limited in their appetite, right, because usually small
capitalized banks, they don't have endless amounts of money, they charge a little more, their interest rate is going to
be a little higher, because they have inefficiencies in their business, typical small bank might have eight or 12
employees. And yet they have a considerable amount of capital under management, and they have to put into work.
And they can take a little bit longer, not maybe longer than the full agency loans, but longer just getting their minds
around who you are. The great news is once you've proven yourself, and once you're a client, it gets super, super easy.
My sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth loans, all of which were for more than $10 million. | don't even think | ever filled
out a 1003 or any other paperwork, | just got the loan documents and signed in front of a notary, because we'd
already done a lot of business with this particular lender, we were a proven commodity. In fact, they tell you, you
know, when you start studying real estate that eventually when you don't need the money, banks will lined up to give
it to you. But in the beginning, when you need the money, there's no banks in sight. And it really got to the point
where we had banks saying, will you please take this million dollars. And As tempting as that is, we have to say, gosh,
thank you, but we just we don't have a way to deploy it right now, that'll be profitable for both of us, people go down
that slippery slope all the time, just because you can borrow the money doesn't mean you should, it’s the project that
drives that. But for you to do it on your own, there's some disadvantages, which is going to take longer may not be
the best use of capital, and there's no real leverage in the beginning. But the positives are, you're saving whatever
would cost you to bring out a partner. Now that partner is not just going to, you know, give you a nod towards the

lender, they're also gonna look over your shoulder and be a sounding board because it could be somebody in the
&) Scott Florida 13:14

Nothing new. But what you mentioned about the appraiser when we went and purchased our It was a smaller
project, but it was six unit project in the middle of Oklahoma City. The appraiser did exactly what you said. And gave
us the the rents for that particular use. And the building appraised actually much higher than we were under
contract. And so it was good deal.

© Robert 13:38

That's a good point. I'm glad you brought that up, Ben, because it's a little bit of an aside, but it’s a great lesson. We
talked about consumer versus investor mentality. And a consumer says oh 6% is way too much interest to pay, |
would never pay it. An investor says | don't care how much the interest rate is, what's the return | could make? If | can
make 11? I'll pay nine, right? So that's the main swing consumer and investor mentality and investor cares about the
durability of the rent, that consumer cares which way the sun comes in the window. So in this regard, a lot of times
when we buy for cash, and if we're doing a rehab project, or certainly when we're doing ground up development, we
buy for cash, maybe cash we've raised as a syndicator, but for cash and we think, oh, | don't need to bother to get an
appraisal. | know what we're going to build. | know what we're going to do. | would suggest that it’s money well spent
to get a professional and appraisal professional in because they will uncover all kinds of cool stuff, sometimes their
physical features of the property. Sometimes it’s going to be like you talked about Ben where they're going to be
worth their money just to give you what it looks like the rents can be and they do their homework and one of the
great things about an appraiser | used to start appraisal class every semester with a list of everybody who is a
stakeholder in the value of Have a home. So obviously that's the owner, and then ultimately the buyer, but also the
neighbors and the lender. And on and on and on, right? All these people who have a stake in the game, they want
the price to be higher, not lower, everybody except the appraiser. The appraiser is completely third party neutral.
Even the Home Inspection company charges more for bigger square footage, home warranties, same thing. But the
appraiser does not care appraiser is a neutral third party and because of that neutral pneus is that a word? They can
be a great, great resource Plus, they look at a lot of properties and look at more property than you do. So an
appraiser is an untapped resource for sure. So thanks for that. Ben, anybody else have a comment on anything we've
talked about or suggestion for Kyle?

© Greg 15:52

My comment would just be about the demographics, kind of the age population, what is the vibe of the city? And it
has to go back to you, Robert, as far as housing costs. If you got a younger population there that struggling to afford
housing, that | think that kind of Tony tiny house would do quite well. But | don't know that city at all. So, you know, |
just kind of looked at the demographics and the housing affordability.

© Robert 16:19

Yeah, great point, Greg. It is very, very market specific what works in one market, especially if it's, it's out of the main
in the margin, as Russ would say, it may not work in another market, a couple of markets we're in there's a
tremendous need for workforce housing, and this kind of a product would rock. In fact, we've got a brand new design
development project where the average square footage of a unit is under 300 square feet for this exact reason. Now
we've done a lot of, you know, study in the market this figure out this is what the market needs right down to having
a focus group with eight or 10. Potential renters, not real renters, not people that are looking right now for an
apartment, it would say I'll take anything, but people who are the types of folks that would be renting. And not only
did they help us with understanding size and use, but also with design, like things that we come in and say, oh,
one answer. It's what would the neighborhood demand. And so to talk about efficiencies, especially I'll tell you where
we're seeing efficiency sized units, even ground up construction of smaller units work pretty well, is in the big, you
know, metro areas where prices have edged up when rent gets expensive. What do you do? Look at London, look at
New York City would be prior to two years ago, the really expensive stuff in those places is tiny. So you rent a |
remember seeing a 90 square foot, a nine square meter apartment in the UK. And it was crazy expensive to rent this
thing, but it was just tiny. So now you look at your specific situation and say, all right, we have an existing footprint.
These were hotel rooms. So there's small, does that warrant some discovery about those the market? need that
today? And absolutely, it does. So how do you find out? Well, there's kind of three different answers. The first is that
the market is always giving us clues as to what it wants. You can tell by what's being marketed by who's active in the
market building developing and what are they building, if there's new apartments being built, where they look like
there's a buy one ship ahead. So that that gives you at least a concept of whether people are seeing now that gives
me a quick aside. That's this. When we see a problem or opportunity in real estate, whether it's in development or
rehab, we can't assume we're the only people that see it. For instance, a new factory is coming in and there's new
jobs and there's not enough apartments. So there's five different developers that are all scurrying around, none of
them knows the others working on and they're all putting together 200 unit apartment complexes and lo and behold,
the cities over built or the sub market is over built. Now sometimes you can find out what's going on you can figure
out whether have been permits and if there's articles and those kinds of things you can keep your ear to the ground
and and certainly consult your boots on the ground team to see you know what is on the way But real estate projects
take a lot of years, they don't just pop up. It’s they’re not by accident. So the first thing to do is just to kind of get the
buzz, see what's happening, and trust your gut. Just because you wouldn't be the ideal tenant for something like this
doesn't mean you don't have an opinion about what the market needs. If you're out looking at the market and doing
your competitive set analysis and discovering gosh, there's all these older large two and three bedroom units. No
one's got studios or efficiencies. Okay, maybe that’s an opportunity. The first building | ever bought in the Phoenix
MSA, many, many years ago, was a 24 unit apartment building that was all little tiny, one bedroom, one bath, how
tiny you ask 323 square feet. That's like a cruise ship cabin. These are really tiny, little properties. But what was really
cool about it is you could see the building from the freeway, they had one of those if you lived here, you'd be home
now, signs on the side when we when we bought the place. And you still can see that building from the freeway. In
fact, | can’t miss it. When | drive there, Phoenix when | go, there was my first apartment building in Phoenix. But the
cool part wasn't that the cool part was as part of our acquisition, we went and talked to our next door neighbor, right
across the street is a large apartment complex 160 something units, all two and three bedrooms, not even any one
bedrooms. So we went to talk to those managers and introduced ourselves and asked that was going and explained.
We were investors looking in the neighborhood, they gave us some information. And then we said, well, specifically,
we're looking at that property going across the street from you guys. And | like isn't that a hotel? Like? No, it might
have been built as a hotel, but really is just month to month studio apartments. To which they said oh my gosh, we
could read all those right now. Okay, so this is not the owner I'm talking to this is the onsite manager. That's great
information. So my partner's like, Alright, thanks. I'm like, wait a minute. Imagine we go through with this transaction,
and we decide to buy this, how would you feel about us cross marketing, if somebody comes into our office looking
for something bigger? We refer them to you. And if somebody wants to studio, you referred him to us? Well, that
arrangement work brilliantly for three years. And we just couldn't help ourselves. The prices have gotten so high in
Phoenix, we sold that thing for a big profit. But that was a really unique situation. Now to get directly to your
question, Kyle, | don't know that | would build 100 efficiencies, because at the moment in time, you're looking at my
make sense, but real estate's a longer term picture than that, is what you're recognizing a real long term trend, or is it
a reaction, right? People need less space because they need to afford less because they don't have jobs because of
COVID. Okay, that's a temporary situation, as opposed to No, as we see the rent rise. And as cities go up, and up and
up, people are getting priced out, the job sometimes will increase like take Silicon Valley, for example, that high
paying jobs in most areas. But the people working at Subway and Starbucks, although they earn more than the same
people in Kansas, they are orders of magnitude higher, so they have to find a place to live. And this could answer
that. So the next level of due diligence, if you will, is to talk to local stakeholders. The example | gave the property
manager on site manager across the street might be one, you're not always going to get good information. And it's
mostly going to be anecdotal, but start to talk to brokers and property managers and depending on where it is the

university housing department and just get a read on what the demand scale looks like. And also, price wise, if a lot
©) Scott Florida 43:24

would would those be two separate syndications, then,

@) Robert 43:28

yep, two completely separate syndications. One might be accredited, and only one might not be, they would
definitely be different, you know, candidates. So as you get to know your list, and you build up your list, you have
people that are more conservative, they aren't, you know, they need any cash flow. If I'm investing in your single
family houses and probably not getting any cash flow until either you sell them or you are they're built in, you're
going to rent them out. Right, but a lender, the minute the money transfers, they're earning their return. And you'd
have to factor that into your budget. So those are my ideas. Anybody else have something here that they've tried or
want to chime in on the conversation?

©) Scott Florida 44:07
A lot of good stuff there. Thank you. You bet.

@ Kyle 44:11

Just one affirmation to pass along because | agree with what's being said especially when it comes to creativity with
lenders. And | was always raised to believe that you know, a bank or a lender has flowcharts and spreadsheets and
everything is based their decision is based off of those two things. And | think that is true a lot of times it’s been true
for me as a single family home buyer with a VA loan or home ready or whatever it is. But when it comes to stuff like
this personalities Really do come into play, and that's where | think that the sales training that | got it last weekend
in Dallas the show valuable because these lenders have needs one inch desires and a lot of them have egos to an
extent and reputations and if we can play to all of those. I've gone A little bit of success in that round is just realizing
that like, they still have to follow rules, but it is still a human on the other end, and they have a board that they have
to run stuff by. And so any kind of spin, | can put on any project. | mean, in my case, that helps significantly after
being told no by three other lenders. So, | just wanted to affirm kind of what you guys have been saying and what
we've been.

© Robert 45:27

Thanks, Kyle. It's a really good point. And it is a relationship business for sure. Probably the one team member where
the relationship could account the least would be the money because you're right, if it doesn’t fit their box, they
aren't saying, Well, God, she's a really nice guy. Let's give him the money. | mean, it’s a hard No, it's like, love Yeah,
buddy. But no eyes, nose. No. At the same time, it's way more beyond that numbers. Here’s what happens. A bank
has to reevaluate their level of risk all the time. So you go in and you say, Hey, I’m interested in building this retail
strip center. And they go, Oh, my gosh, yes, we don't have any retail strip centers in our portfolio right now, that
would actually help us diversify our risk. We'd love to take on a retail strip center. You say, awesome, you go do your
homework, you get a piece of land under contract, you get drawings bill, you go to sit down, and they go, Oh, well,
we've now funded two of these. We don't have any more room in our portfolio for any more retail. You're like, whoa,
wait a minute, wasn't it you that said you would love this. And so the point is, every loan they make readjusts their
contingent liabilities, every single loan they make, once you are a known commodity, who has borrowed money, and
paid it back and borrowed money and paid it back, there's the unwritten column where they go, all things being
equal. This is a person or a group we're going to loan to, because we have a history, when you do things, like bring
them what they need, bring a bunch of depositors now you might have the ability to do that you might not, there's a
little another little tool, we use a lot to build a banking relationships, and it's perfectly legal. I've done it for more than
20 years. And it works. And we'll share it next time. No, I'm kidding. I'll tell you what it is, it's called a back to back a
back to back as this | walk into a bank, | have zero relationship capital, | want to borrow money, but they don’t know
that. So | asked to talk to the bank manager and just myself and say, I'd like to put $200,000 in your bank. And then
I'd like to immediately establish either a loan or a line of credit against it, it will be my collateral Do you do back to
backs here? Now either they look at you funny, or they go? Absolutely. And they'll figure out a way to do it either way.
So how much risk is the bank taking loaning me 200 grand? If | have 200 grand sitting in their bank pledged that
would be zero, right? its sole purpose, | can’t get to that money. It's 100% pledge for the loan. So why on earth would
| want to borrow my own money? Why not borrow my own money, my own money is sitting there as collateral,
sometimes even that interest. Meanwhile, I'm borrowing money at a higher interest rate. So it's negative arbitrage.
But I'm not doing it for that reason. I'm doing that I'm doing it because now | probably just became one of the top
20% of customers, if not higher, by deposits. And numbers, a lot of their their bank customers have $18,000 or 18
$100 or 40 grand in the bank, not too many at 200 grand. So | went from being nobody to being the guy with 200
grand in their bank. Now, here's the beauty of it. My 200 grand has to sit somewhere anyway. And we get lazy. And
we know about the FDIC insurance, you know requirements, but we still we get lazy we let money accumulate. Don't
raise your hand, but you know who you are. If you've got more than $250,000. In an FDIC insured account, it's at risk.
But who wants to have that many bank accounts? Okay, well, given all all the problems you could choose, that
wouldn't be a bad problem. But you hear what I’m saying. So it's not a bad thing to go put 200 grand in an account
instantly, | have a line to the general manager, will the manager of the bank take my call as a guy with 200 grand,
and they can't Oh, not only do | not, not only do | have 200 grand in their bank. I'm also a client of theirs because
they made me alone. And they don't know me. So many times when we wanted to collapse timeframes and get to do
a banking relationship. | literally don't walk in off the street. I've done some research about the bank, or I've been
referred, hey, these are good guys. Or if | meet somebody in a real estate event or something and people talk well
about the bank, it can be a quick way to establish a relationship and there's no obligation on their part to do any
more with you. And there's no obligation on your part. You pay the whole thing off and anytime you want. You spend
a little interest money which is a tax deductible expense, check with your CPA, and no harm no foul, but more often
than not in my history that’s led to Do a great banking relationship. So that's bonus time for somebody. All right, how
are we doing on time? We got a few minutes left. Anybody else have a comment? A question. And then we talked
about today, any clarification or if you want to throw out one quick additional topic, we could do that.

Baskal Korkis 50:17

Let's say that, if they were going to pay cash, a million dollars to build the buildings, to consider that if they were
going to go to say, like a life insurance company, normally, their minimum loan is a million dollars. So | would
probably raise a little bit more than that, more like 1.25 or 1.5 million, because in that, that way, you can actually
have a million dollars worth of assets to go to the life company, they're going to give you a better deal better rate
longer term, and then that's your backup. But if you're under a million, they won't even talk to you. So consider that,
obviously, it'd be amazing that if they appraise it at the current market value, not the cost of construction, but we
can guarantee what's going to happen at that time, it is safer to say that they'll give it to you at cost compared to
giving it to you at market value. So you know, then you can put it, you know, have that cushion of you know, at 20%
for just in case, so then you put you in a better chance of getting a strong Yes.

Robert 51:23

That's the voice of experience there, Bhaskar. Thank you for that, you definitely want to keep in mind the loan
minimums, and there's all kinds of people to loan money. It's not just banks, insurance companies, and pension funds
and reeds and all kinds of people, but most of them do have pretty large minimum loans and loan amounts. We had
May 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Deals and
Deal Struct...

@ Thu, 9/2310:18AM @ 57:31

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

loan, lender, bank, money, people, appraiser, build, big, project, business, appraisal, houses, syndication, building, property,

raise, apartment, market, talk, borrow

SPEAKERS

Baskal Korkis, Robert, Scott Florida, Kyle, Greg

© Robert 00:17

All right syndication mentoring club, it's our Ask the mentors q&a for deals and deal structure for May 2021. Great to
have everybody with us, we've got a bunch of folks live, if you're watching on the replay, while you're still going to
learn some stuff, so that's going to be cool. This call is really designed to get into the weeds on deal structure could
be from a syndication point of view could be from the actual deal point of view, we're going to talk all kinds of fun
stuff and have in the past month. So with that, we have some folks who submitted questions. And Kyle, it looks like
they have two questions from you, one we may have covered yesterday on the market analysis call it Ingo. But once
you go ahead and unmute yourself, Kyle, and let us know your question. We'll get started with that.

© Kyle 01:05

Thank you, Robert. Hey, everybody, good building under contract downtown, it's super old, in Shreveport. And it used
to be a hotel on the top two floors. So the rooms are all decent size, but might not be big enough for an apartment.
And | guess I'm just trying to wrap my mind around, you know, efficiency apartments are becoming popular. But from
a market needs analysis kind of perspective. How would anyone go about determining whether we want to combine
the rooms like to make them all 1000 square feet? Or just keep them all super small, four to 500 square feet? Other

than just we need? Is there a scientific approach that | can take?

© Robert 01:52

Alright, well, that is actually a world class question. And it brings us up a little a little bigger. So we'll start there, then
we'll drill down into your specific question. And the first basis is how do you know that what you're buying and or
building and or developing or rehabbing is the right project. So there's a couple of principles of appraisal, the first
principle of appraisal, which gets thrown around a lot in real estate is highest and best use what is highest and best
use. So the example | like to give | used to give my appraisal classes was Imagine you have 200 lots in a
neighborhood, and 199 of them have single family houses. What do you think highest and best use is for the 200?
Lot? And it’s not an obvious answer. You might say, Well, obviously a house because that’s what's built there. Or you
might say actually, what about a convenience Mart? Right. So the way highest and best use works is there’s not just
kind when it comes to real estate. Many of you have already experienced this when it comes to qualifying for loans,
as either you had no rental experience. And so the lender doesn't want to put somebody in a loan that has no
experience, or you get Fannie and Freddie out. And now you're caught your your situation has changed in the lenders
eyes. And you either go to different lenders or different types of programs. When it comes to construction loans,
construction loans are made to people to do construction. So our first development loan, what we did is exactly what
you suggested in the first scenario, that is we brought on a partner with a great track record, and even more
importantly, a lender relationship. So it was his lender, and we had been passively investing with them. And because
he had been, you know, the recipient of a lot of the folks that we had educated and nurtured and said these are alll
great people that are the right people, we went to lunch with his lender, and he said, these are my friends and my
partners in three of the projects, all of which you will call her Lynn, since that’s her name, Lynn, you did all these
projects, you did the loans for them. And these guys were the biggest contributors to the equity. And she said, Wow,
great, okay, so what we're going to do in this next deal is they're going to sit and lead chair and I'm going to help
them out. And you're going to make them the loan. And she went great. And | think that was our loan interview.
Because that’s what happened. I'm sure some papers were signed, but it was we got the gig, not because of our
experience, because we partnered some with somebody. So let's talk about that scenario. Because it's, you know,
Option A, there is probably a stakeholder of some kind, who's got the ability to qualify and could help you qualify.
The big question is how do you compensate that person? What is their role, if they're the actual builder building the
property, it's really not fair to ask them to pledge their balance sheet in addition doing the construction, but it is
possible, especially if they believe that you have earnestly an interest in long term relationship where you know,
you're not going to buy just one house, you're going to buy a lot of houses. And that's kind of your plan. So if you
found the right partner, you might get someone to do that. Now. | will tell you this about builders, most of them don't
have any money. It's just for whatever reason, that’s how it seems to be is the actual general contractor and
construction company, is in my experience, maybe not the best place to go even though Got construction lenders will
make them alone. It's because of their experience, not because of their balance sheet net worth or credit. What I'm
going to suggest you're going to need is a little of both of those things. They want to see somebody in the trades, like
if you just came in with some rich dude with a big old balance sheet, that might not be enough for a construction
loan. When | sat with our lender in Las Vegas, along with Ross and another business associate of ours, to do a
second project, the whole idea was we were now going to bring Ross and we'll call this guy jack, Ross and jack onto
the program, | had been on the first loan that they had made to us it had been successful, we paid them back. It had
been a couple years. So | went in prepared and this gal Kelly was awesome at the bank, we had a good relationship,
but | did not expect her to remember every single detail from the loan two years ago, and she didn't. So what |
brought in was just a little notebook where | printed out in color before and after of the project that she funded. You
might not remember this, but this is what it looked like before. You loaned us the money to buy it and then a million
dollars with the cap x. Here's what it looks like afterwards, we sold all these today. | own a building and Russell owns
a building. And this is the project today. She goes oh yeah, yeah, | remember that. That was a great project. Yes, it
was. So one that compliments her. But to it’s showing her that, Hey, remember us like you loaned us millions and we
paid you back. Alright, now here's the next one. | only have the before pictures, right? Here’s what it looks like today.
Here's what our plan and she says, Well, that seems This is the short version, after we laid it all out. That seems like
pretty similar to the one we already did | go exactly. It's very similar. | don’t want to call it a cookie cutter. But it’s very
similar. Now the big difference is my partner. This is Russ gray. He’s my new partner, my previous partner we did the
first deal of we had had our business divorce by the end. So he was in the picture. And she had lent to the two of us.
So that was my hand off. And by the way, this is jack and jack had a really successful business career and never done
anything like this. But he he googled Well, if you will. And within that hour meeting, we're pretty much had the
groundwork, and they made us that loan as well. So you're the whole thing here is to get in the first or second time.
And | think you've already been the nature of your question, Scott is Hey, what do | need to do at this stage of my
career? So | can be the guy that don't make loans do? So is that an assumption? Or you're with that? Okay, good.
That's That's the idea. So the answer is whatever we have to the first time. So if | have to find somebody, it might not
be a builder, it might be somebody else in the trades, that's credit worthy, that would have some other maybe a
supplier of wash washers and dryers. You know, we've got folks that are vendors that we do a lot of volume with, in
fact, a project that we had, we had a committee to fund a loan we were doing, and three of the five people on the

committee were all vendors of ours. So that didn't hurt. Right. So maybe there are people that could be involved that
a guy reach out to us about a month ago, and coming up for air after COVID. He says, we'd like to loan you $25
million, or more, like 25 million or more. So you don't know any less than 25 million. Nope, that's my minimum. Okay,
awesome. I'd like to know seven guys just like that. But for many of us, that's that’s too much. We have to figure out
how to borrow that much money. But it’s true. And the reason is, we kind of spoke to this just the efficiencies that a
bank has, if they're going to go to all the trouble to vet you in the property and get the appraisal done and have the
DRock and the construction draws and all that. They're not doing that on a $40,000 loan, right, there's just not
enough zeros in it. So it usually is some minimum, one advantage to local banks, as they often have lower minimums.
But remember the trade off, they're also going to have higher rates, you can get some really great financing rates
when you borrow 10 or $20 million. But then when you look at the monthly payment, you know, it seems kind of high
still so alright, that's great input. Anybody else have any? Anything to share?

Scott Florida 52:45

| just have a follow up. Is our life insurance companies? Do you just contact them directly and say, I'm interested in,
you know, a loaner? That's a whole nother realm? How does that work?

Robert 52:56

Typically, not typically, you don't go in the front door, the life insurance company, what happens is that premiums
stack up. And almost all life insurance companies are sitting on a whole bunch of money. Now there's different kinds
of life insurance, we have to have a discussion from Russ, since he was licensed in that space. | was for about five
minutes, but | never talked about it. But here’s the basic premise is there's different types of policies. I'm in a term
policy, and it doesn't apply that has any cash value that builds up. Many insurance companies want to provide some
long term returns. So they take a relatively conservative amount of money, and they put it to work in places that they
deem pretty safe. And real estate is one of those places, they're using lower Itvs and those kinds of things, but they
have a lot of money. And they don't demand a huge return. They're not usury rates. They're usually inexpensive, but
it's usually handled by a broker who works directly either as an employee for the insurance company, but usually
where insurance companies place loans is through third parties through brokerage companies and those kinds of
things. So you wouldn't, you know, go to mutual Henry and say, Hey, can | borrow some money? But brokers will find
those types of sources. So good question. And the other thing is, as you do more and more and get better and better,
they'll find you. All right. Any other questions, comments, points of view perspectives, disagreement? No. All right, one
or a few minutes remaining, we probably don't have enough room for another question. But if you've been on this
call before you know that one of things we're working towards is doing a series of pro formas where there’s some
variables so you can kind of plug in and when | say a series like it's going to be different for buying old apartment
than it would be for ground up construction and we have some pretty massive, pretty complicated ones, we wouldn't
start there, we'd start with something that isn’t, you know, overly basic. But you know, just to give you some some
ideas to get started, no to end up looking the same, but to start somewhere. So that’s something we're working on.
But that's not as important in my book is answering your questions. So if you have a specific deal question like some
of you did today, you can submit those and happy to answer those. The more time I've given the more I'm, | may
have to think about it or research it. But you know, as you can tell, most of this is fairly off the cuff. | did. | admit, |
didn't spend seven hours preparing for this one hour call. It was more like 45 seconds. But still, if it's something
complicated, or stuff that | look at pictures or that kind of stuff. Great. The last thing I'll say is in case you haven't
heard the news, you probably got the email. But we made a decision to move our meetup in the fall to New Orleans
right around the New Orleans investment conference. So it doesn't mean you have to come to investment
conference, but you sure might want to, because it’s an awesome conference with great speakers. But 85% of the
attendees are accredited investors. So if you plan to sign up, sign up through our link on our website, so that we get
credit for you and they also get you invited to the party that we do with you so used to saying it's Friday night
because it's normally Wednesday through Saturday night and Friday nights the real estate guys party, but it’s not
Wednesday through Saturday this year. So one of the nights, we're gonna have a real estate guy's party and we
industry, right? So you give that up. But by doing it yourself, you're also putting yourself in a position where you're
building the rest of the exact resume you need for lenders to want to play. So, you know, one of the things you talk
about early with a lender is just what is their big appetite? Like we're gonna go through these five houses, you know,
we're gonna do those with cash, then we're maybe want to do another 10 houses, and that's looks like this amount of
money? And would that be something that bank would have an appetite for? Which is how you ask it, you don't say,
you know, would you do it? Or do you have enough money? Just like it’s not polite to ask a person how much money
they have. It's not polite to ask the bank, their public funds will show you that, but just ask what the bank have an
appetite for this, and they can absolutely go great. What about when | get to 100 houses? Does your bank have an
appetite? And the answer might be Yes, but it might be well, at that point, we would probably have to look to some
financial alternatives, but we would work it out with you. Okay, here's what bank speak means. That means they're
going to do a syndication of their own. They don't call it that there's another word for it. But where they come
together with two or three other banks, and they share the risk just like reinsurance. It’s real banking, and they're able
to set the word, they take each other's some of the risk. glede lender comes in and says, Okay, we're gonna commit
to 10 million, we'll take two and a half. And another lender will look and say, well, you guys are prudent. We know
your standards. If you'll do two and a half, we'll do three, right and then they fund the whole thing that way. And you
want to find out those questions early on because the worst thing You can do is build up all this equity and
relationship with a lender who you outgrow immediately. This has happened to Eric Shelley, he’s got a great local
lender he's been dealing with and pretty quickly because of his numbers, he’s outgrowing them. And, and it's
worthwhile to always consider a second source. You know, we love loyalty, banks love loyalty, but sometimes they're
just not the right bank for the job. So you want to get really clear on what they want. How do you know what they
want? You ask them. Russ and | were sitting in San Antonio with a lender. It was a big local bank. So not just a little
mom and pop neighborhood bank, but a pretty big local banks that are eight branches throughout San Antonio, but
only in San Antonio, not a bigger bank, not a regional bank, a local bank. And Russ said, Now, let me ask you this,
what is it that you guys really need? And he said, deposits. We need depositors’ some banks don't need depositors.
They have all the depositors they want. | mean, | guess every bank always was looking for new business. But this
bank, especially so we were doing a syndication, we had 20 or 22, individual investors, and we asked each of them to
open a bank account at this bank. Most of them did that. That's what the banker needed, that gave us a nod. So you
always want to work together, find out what your bank needs, find out where they're going. At the same time, you
don't want single point failure. So you go out and you talk to four different banks, and you settle on the one you think
is going to be the best one for you. But you keep those other relationships open. And | would even go as far as
keeping them informed. Say, you're number two, you say, you know, Mary, we love talking with you guys. You were
definitely in the running, we decided to go with ABC bank instead, here's why. See, let them know the competitive
advantage or whatever it is. But I'd love permission to keep you informed about this, because our business is going
up and not down, we're going to do more, not less. And I'd love to have you guys, you know, consider another project
for us. And if she says, Hell, no, you had your chance, and that was it. Okay, but that's not what she’s gonna say, she’s
gonna say, that would be great. And then you actually do it, hey, just want to let you know, we got our loan funded,
we got the first two houses out of the ground, it’s going really well. I'll keep you up to speed with this project. And of
course, as we get new projects in our pipeline, and now you're building a second relationship, because once you have
two or three, now you have choice. And that's ultimately what you want. You know, loyalty is a strange thing. When
you have this whole, | need to pick from three different people on the list. It's like the hotel business, we have hotels
that we like and have a good relationship with. But if Kara calls up, and they've already booked the ballroom on that
day, it doesn't matter how good our relationship is, they're, they're not a viable candidate. So sometimes the bank
loved project number one. And number two, just either right now, or in general isn't isn't for them. So there was a lot

in there any questions or clarification about any of that?

Scott Florida 37:57

No, other than maybe third follow up would be any other thoughts on getting something started? Is there another
path that I'm not thinking about that could move us in that direction, | think what you gave me Give me lots of stuff
to chew on. And there's a lot of meat on that bone as far as just, you know, moving forward. But I'm also just, like |
of the current apartment owners are missing the mark in terms of price, they're overpriced. So they're having a
stubborn high vacancy amount. And yet there is demand that's usually remedied by price, you come up with a
product you can deliver at a lower price, that could be big. So a lot of what you're going to do is going to be rely on
professionals in the area. Now you can also get you know, if you're in real estate, or while you know about a broker
price opinion, a broker price opinion isn't an appraisal. It's a broker's opinion of value, but it can be really useful when
we're looking at a project and we're wondering, hey, what's something going to be worth here say | want to build
single family houses, | get a broker to tell me what those properties would sell for today. That broker isn't going to be
you know, extrapolating ahead and all that kind of stuff, but I'll get some good information. Same thing with a
property management company. At some point, you could hire an appraiser. Now appraiser, although we don't think
of them in terms of this regard. We think of them in terms of a value. What they do is they look around at the
competitive set. So every now and then you'll get an appraiser who can appraise the rental rate. They're not
appraising the value they're saying okay, based on the study have units we have to rent, what would they ran for
today, we sometimes use this when we have a building that's been empty for a while, no one's been renting the
place. And so there is no real cost for the building, or we use it when it's a more unique property. Now, the third level
is to bring in a professional consultant, someone who does this for a living, and there are great guys that do this.
Now | say, guys, because in all of my experience, I've never met a woman in this business. | hope there is one. I'd love
to meet her someday. But it always seems that every market has a guy, and this is his job. Maybe on the show, you've
heard us interview john burns, john burns is that guy on a really big level, john burns consulting. their clients are
builders, typically single family home builders across the country. When | met him, he was just a local guy that was a
one man operation. And today, he’s got dozens of employees. And there's lots of great research. But in many markets
in Las Vegas, we had a guy we use for 15 years who just knew the market like the back of his hand, here's why it hired
this guy. He was not a residential guy. He was a Las Vegas guy. And we would literally tie up a piece of property and
say, Hey, john, what do you say his name happened to be john as well? Hey, john, what do you think, would be the
highest and best use for this property? And not only would he be very opinionated? He was uncannily right. It was
amazing. So we've built a product had been in syndication event, you know about our office condos, that was the
product we had in mind. And in many cases, he liked that product. he endorsed our use, we had done enough
homework to figure that our property work well. And we hired him as just a vote of confidence as a local guy. But
there was one situation where he said, Guys, no, that’s that's not what | would do at all with this property we're like,
really, and | won't belabor this one hour call, because it's a long story. But he laid out in great detail all the reasons
he felt we should do something else there. What we ended up doing was passing and not doing it, because it was
something out of our wheelhouse, but the guy was sharp. So sometimes you need to bring in our professional. And
there are folks that specialize in different areas. Now, just in terms of the trend, when it comes to these efficiency
units, we're seeing a bunch of these actually, and what's pretty common is for your consideration, combining two
units, right, | just looked toward one of these three weeks ago when they're all over 400 square foot hotel rooms. And
the plan is to make them 800 square foot apartments. Think about a hotel room, it doesn't have a kitchen, it has a
bathroom, it's very efficient. That might be enough, you build a little counter with a coffee pot, a toaster oven and a
microwave. And you're good. Right That might work if the market calls for it. So I've been talking a long time. Does

any of that resume call?

Kyle 12:50

Does Robert thank you? Yes, it does. | know there's more that | can do. And | just need to start probably putting pen
to paper and talking more with the people around me than | have been already. So

Robert 13:02

excellent. Hey, we got a lot of smart people on the call is anybody else want to chime in here in this conversation,

have an idea or something maybe you've done? Just go ahead and unmute and fire away if you do.
