JO

you can't perform without them. It's a symbiotic relationship. So they don't they don't serve you like subordinate to
you. | don't look at Stacy and her team as subordinates to me, | look at them as partners. We work together. My

mission is to build her business, her business is to build mine.

1:05:38
| thought that clicking was was my arthritis, but Okay, oh, it’s something

Russ 1:05:49

| went over with that ramble. So | think we're gonna call this a wrap. appreciate everybody being on the call. I'm
looking forward to seeing some or all of you this weekend and we are going to crush it you guys. | hope we're going
to come out with a lot of confidence and a lot of optimism about your skills and your ability to engage in those one

on one conversation. So thanks for being on the call. We'll see you next time.
Russ 32:17

this this is really just the the art form of being able to get into an effective one on one conversation is, is all we have
time for it, because the way it works, is that, you know, I'll I'll explain the the entire process and then kind of model it.
And then what I'll do is I'll break it down into components, so that you can see the phases of where you're at in the
communication cycle. And then, and then from there, | teach you the technique, and then | have you practice the
technique. And then we showcase the technique. And then we just keep building technique upon technique until by
the end, you have the whole process soup to nuts. And at the end, you're doing a comprehensive one on one
interview that takes two full days. So that you know, the internal part, we cover some of that on the platform
personal syndication philosophy. Obviously, Robert and I've talked about it many times on the the podcast and and,
you know, we can certainly do like, probably come up with some type of special piece of content, maybe a special

ask the mentors, where we just do a deep dive into that.

Craig Kamman 33:33

I've got it, I've got to extract it out of my head is my problem.

Russ 33:37

Yeah, goals is really | mean, goals is the best place to do it. If you've been to the Create your future event, then you
go back and look at those notes and the stuff that came out of you there is the basis. It's a big part of why that
program is so important because it really | mean money in deals and business. And all of that is really all about
supporting a lifestyle, about who your what you want to do, what you want to experience and the change, you want
to be in the world. And then you have to go figure out to build a business to fund all that and to do without
compromising who you are. So it is a little bit complex. Now I'm not saying you can't go out there and make a bunch
of money along the way. It's just you know, our concern is and having experienced this as you wake up one day and
you've spent your whole life climbing a ladder to success and you're standing on top of the mountain beating your
chest and you realize Dang, | climbed the wrong mountain. Not that you use a ladder to climb a mountain so | mixed
metaphors here but you get the idea. Okay, so somebody just put something in the chat to Ben. Ben says I've been
talking with someone who | consider to be an influencer. He arranged a meeting for me with someone who
influences influencers. Good job. He has a qi bonus burning a hole in his pocket. Great. The three of us are on a
meeting for Monday. | need tips on how to leave the meeting. what not to do. Yeah, Ben, have you been through the
sales training? Yes. Okay. So that's the tip. You know, set the table. thank everybody for being there. And let them
know that you want to be respectful of their time. So you know how much I've allocated this much time for today's
call, and certainly willing to go over if necessary, but my intention is to get on and off before then. And to do that
and make it effective for everybody. | want to make sure that we hit all the bases. So you know, then you just ask
them, if this call is going to be a home run, and you walk away feeling great, Ben, what do we get done? And then
you're going to tell me, and then I'll ask the next person. And then what will happen is you'll begin to see some form
of a consensus. And a lot of times people will not have put any thought into it. And so either something will just come
out. Or they'll just say, Well, | just want to hear about the deal. Okay, well, they basically given you permission to run
your agenda, or they're going to give you intelligence to modify your agenda to scratch their itch. So that's number
one. Okay, then number two, you kind of have to set the vision for the meeting. So let's see considered to be an
influencer. Okay. So now what | want to do is | want to get them talking. So | would say first of all, | would think the
introducer the influence the the person who introduced you to the the influencer of the influencer. And he's the
person who brought you to the party. And so then the next thing is, you know, give me a name so! can do the
roleplay. Right. What's the name? Name? Just first name of the person who brought you to the party.

ATLA
going to make everything happen, I'm done. I'm done. And the team makes it happen. They get the contract signed,
they collect the money, | don’t do any of that they put the website up, they write the copy, they do everything, all |
have to do is that one point of engagement, where | have to make the sale. And if you happen to be the guy in your
group that has those chops, great, if you're sitting here thinking oh my god, that's my weakness when they just put
somebody in that seat. And that's okay. But just make sure you have them, you know, you spend time with them, that
they're loyal to you that you have the right kind of contracts in place, because that's a really, really important seat.
And if that person builds a strong personal relationship with your key relationships, and you don't have protections,
then they can undermine your business. But if you if that is you, then then you're actually in in great shape. So when |
heard you say, Well, I'm, I'm afraid I'm going to have too much interest, and | won't be able to handle the law. | mean,
that that's exactly how you want to feel. That's how | feel every single day. I'm constantly having to throttle myself,
because if | go do what | want to do on the sales side, | overwhelm the team. And I've learned | don't want to be
overwhelmed. And | have to work with the team. And Stacey has to throttle me all the time, in multiple ways. But the
point is, is that is that, you know, | want to start 15 initiatives all at once, | want to go open up all these things and
talk to all these people and make all these leads happen. The problem is the automations aren't in place, the people
don't know what to do with the opportunities that | can go create. And so | have to limit myself to like only two or
three a quarter, and we have to crush those before we move on to the next one. And I'm not easily constrained in

that regard. But I’m I'm learning.

@ Staci Gray 1:02:38

Well, you also have to discipline yourself because you think you can do it. And then you really can't either. So there's
a little bit of both.

Russ 1:02:45

Yeah, | mean, it's just it’s just the reality checks. | mean, if we weren't, if we weren't, people had big visions, and in
Super confidence, we wouldn't try. But But when you have a big vision, and when you see opportunity everywhere
and you have confidence, you just you're like a racehorse, you just want to run. And and you know, especially this
time in my life personally, just because I’m I'm in a sad way. But the reality is I'm set free, right? | don't have, | don't
have the things that were burdening me before because my wife is no longer with me, | don't have to care for her, |
don't even have to really consider her wishes in what I'm doing. | just need to go do what | want to do what I’m
capable of doing. So, you know, depending on where you're at, and in your life, you know, | mean, you can run as fast
as you as you can go. But you also have to make sure that if you're going to work as part of a team, that Yeah, you're
the visionary. And you're, you're part of the leadership. But you also have to work hand in hand with whoever's kind
of running the wind beneath your wings, right? | mean, the pilot has to work with the wind, he doesn't get to fight the
wind, if you've been on a plane, right? He's adjusting things to ride the wind. Without the wind, nothing happens. And
so | couldn't do anything without Stacy and her team, they would all just be ideas on a dream board somewhere.
And I'd fantasize that someday I'm gonna go do these things. But having a team allows me to actually believe Wow, |
if | put the effort in to go try to do this, it can actually happen. It can happen well, and it can scale, which means that
once | get momentum, | can go bigger, bigger, faster, faster. And the beautiful thing about this business is once you
find your stride once you kind of get your rhythm, right, all of a sudden it takes off if you watched if you were at the
last syndication event and low Hornbuckle showed his progression, and he was very gracious giving us credit that
when he engaged in our program, it took off, but part of it was him just working through that beginning everybody
goes through that one day clicks. And if we're a part of that, great, no, we're here to accelerate that process. But in
your own individual evolution, you're going to get that one point where all sudden it clicks and you're off to the races
and And that that clicking is you and your skills and your confidence. But it's also your integration with a team that
can support that kind of growth. And so you're wise to be considering that early in your development, especially if

you do have those, the confidence in your ability to create opportunity because your team can't eat without you, but
know, let's say that I'm just gonna make stuff up. Let's say that your brother in law's your financial advisor, and if you
did anything outside of his purview, it would create family hardship, then I'm just like, tell me and that's fine. I'll leave
you alone. But, you know, and then all of a sudden you realize this, you know, a lot of times it’s just people are overly
analytical and they're just afraid to make a decision. Now In the training, you know, we talked about understanding
whatever they give you is either going to be a genuine misunderstanding or a misunderstanding or genuine
disadvantage. In other words, they're gonna say, Well, | really need the deal to do this, you're like, well, this deal
doesn't do that. But now that | know that if | brought you a deal trial close move immediately after the trial closes, if |
brought you a deal that did that, is there any other reason you would want to move forward with it? Oh, no, if you
brought me a deal that did that I'm in great. If he says, Oh, you know, blah, blah, blah, well, then you're peeling back
the layers of the onion to find out what the other objections are. If it's a misunderstanding, you clear up a
misunderstanding say, Oh, I'm sorry. And that’s 100% on me. Because clearly, you know, it seems like your
understanding is this. But the reality is this. And here, let me show you. And here's the proof, right, you always
overcome the misunderstanding with proof, could be social proof, could be statistical proof, could be scientific proof,
whatever it is, whatever the proof is, that satisfies it. Or if you don't have it with you ready to go, you see, oh, | totally
understand how you would see that it’s my fault. | didn't do a good job. | don’t have the the information with me right
now. But let me do this. Let me get, go get it and get the information. We'll get back together. And I'll explain you
how this is the case. But let me ask you this, Ben, assuming that | come back, and we go through this, and you're like,
Oh, yeah, that's not a problem. Are there any other concerns that you have? No, | need to flush it all out. Salespeople
don't like to flush out the objections. They just hope they'll magically disappear. Well, they won't. They won't. So you
got to flush them out. And you can't be afraid of flushing him out. Because you don't care if he says yes or no. You
care about finding an answer that works for him. And if whatever he gives you, you can't really legitimately answer.
Well, then it’s not a sale and there's no harm no foul. No, you didn't fail. Nobody says success in sales by getting
someone who doesn't need or want what you're offering to buy it. That to me is failure, not success. Yeah. But you
didn't get paid. Who cares? Right? I'm not in the business of putting square holes in round, square pegs in round
holes. I'm here to help people.

Ben 52:15

So the trial close is key there.

Russ 52:19

Well, it’s the trial closes, how you flush out the additional objections? You hypothetically hypothetically eliminate it
right? You'll see me do that a lot. You know, okay, well, | hear what you're saying. Let's suppose for a minute, that's
not an issue. Is there anything else? Right? I'm moving it aside. I'm hypothetically eliminating it. Because | don't
believe that the first thing he says is the real objection, | want to get it all out. And sometimes when the guy is just
like this, and he's not telling you anything, say, Well, the reason | ask is because you know, sometimes people have
things and they're a little shy, right? They don’t want to tell me that, you know, hey, my wife is just not on board. I'm
totally on board. But my wife is no way. That's fine. Just tell me and I'll stop bothering you. | don't want to get in the
middle of your family or | don’t want to get in the middle of whatever. And sometimes making them own it. Is them
realizing Well, I'm I'm embarrassed that that's the case. And I'm going to do it anyway. Or, but or you can say hey,
well, let me get involved. | maybe maybe, maybe my team and | can explain to them some of the things they're
concerned about maybe maybe their misunderstandings, maybe they think this isn’t what it really is. | mean, | do you
think Ben if if the person this is hypothetical ganic is just hypothetical clothes. Do you think then if this person who's
influencing you, of course, | wouldn't say it that way. But the point is, I'm just want you to be clear what I'm saying.
Right, but do you think this person is influencing you away from this deal right now? if they if they understood what
you understood, because you've spent time with me? Do you think they might see it our way? Our way? nethers You
and me against them? Right. And as well, maybe? Well, then, you know, why don't we have a conversation with them?
Why don't we bring him into the conversation? God reason you wouldn't want to write because again, I'm closing. So
oe Oo

JO

JO

I'm going to ask a double negative in reason you wouldn't want to. Well, no, okay, well, no is yes. Because | asked a
double negative, right, and then it’s like, Okay, well then let's go and get that set up. And that's the close. So you
know, you're close. A big close is a series of little closes and the little closes is whatever the next incremental step is,
so that you're moving it forward. You never know what the what the next step is because you determine the next step
in the interview. But you always have to be thinking ahead, where do | go from here? What is my next step if | can't
move them? You know, a mile Can | move them a yard if | can’t move from a yard? Can | move them a foot if | can't
move them a foot Can! move them an inch Right, what is the next incremental? How can | move them down this
process and as you'll see in the training, | have the the picture with the people the blindfolds on the blind leading the
blind. If you don't know what the next step is, there’s, you're not going to know. So you have to know, you have to see
the big picture. But then you have to think, Okay, well, | got all these different ways | can go, What is it? What is the
thing | can close for will be the next incremental step, and then just close for that. And then that's a close and then
you've kept it alive. And then you move on to the next step, whatever that next step is, which you close for the
commitment to reconvene to examine information to gather information, then reconvene, you know, the agreement
that, hey, I'll go get this information. And when | have it, I'll call you. We'll schedule a call. | that’s not much of a close.
It's better to actually get the meeting scheduled. But if you can't move them afoot, take an inch. Get that agreement.

Does that make sense?

55:57
Yeah, absolutely.

Ben 55:58
Thank you.

Russ 55:59

Sure. Okay, so we are three minutes to go. And happy. | don't see anybody waving their hands. SAP you you jumped
in? Did you come in with anything you wanted to talk about? Are you just here idle curiosity? Or is it resistance? All of
the above?

56:20

Learning from everyone else, too? | didn't have anything that was super pressing. | did have a question. | already
forgot it. So hopefully it'll it'll come back next time. Okay.

Russ 56:28

Well, you have you have two minutes to figure it out. All right. Anybody else? Any comments? Questions? Yeah, the

new guy. J, the new guy. Welcome aboard.

56:41

I'm the new guy. | might kick this one towards Stacy. |, | watched your your eight steps to growing your syndication
series? And is the part that intimidates me is | think | can go out and tell the story and talk to folks and, and help
together, you promoted the expert comes in, but you get the list. And you know what they're interested in because
they bet. And then you nurture the list by feeding them more of what they came for. And then from time to time,
offering them some type of a tax advantaged opportunity, and a certain percentage of those people will bite at it.
That makes sense.

© Craig Kamman_ 17:32

It does. So rather than conforming to my sphere, I've got to basically create that the new sphere, attracting the right

personnel.

© Russ 17:42

Yeah, and it's not just attracting, you know, everybody should have a sales funnel. When we first started, | would go
in, and | would draw this funnel and | would say, okay, the front end, we're, we're going we're teaching college classes,
we're speaking at seminars, where if Kiyosaki comes to town, we get a booth, you know, we buy a breakout event,
you know, we have all these ways we put people in the front end. And then once they're in, then, you know, we didn't
have an email campaign, or you know, we didn't have a good nurturing program, what we would do is we wouldn't
you but we would invite them to come to a very low level event, very inexpensive, but high value event for like $97.
Eventually, we got up to $299, it was an eight hour seminar called profitable real estate investing and hundreds of
people would come. And from there, we would offer them the opportunity to get into a free consultation, because we
position ourselves as a strategist, that’s kind of where | became a financial strategist. And people would want to
come in and sit down. And in order, and we were all third party endorsing each other from the front of the room. And
then what would happen is that people would have to go take classes to more classes to even get into that strategy,
consultation. And then from that strategy consultation, we would uncover their needs, wants desires, goals and
objectives, | would do the whole thing | talked about earlier, and | didn't have a sales agenda. And they had earned
the right they had paid a big price and time and money to even be in that room. So that instead of it feeling like a
sales call, they felt like they were they were sitting with, you know, somebody who could really help them and | made
sure | maintain that demeanor the entire time, | never flipped over into sales mode at all. And | would recommend,
hey, go talk to the asset protection guy, go talk to the tax guy, go talk to the mortgage person. When you get
through the mortgage thing that we can plug into property showcase where you can look at deals, or if you're
interested in what we call power of the group, or team or syndications. And you can come to this seminar where
we're in get on this list where when a deal like that comes available, we'll let you know. The point is is you have to
have a plan to acquire leads. You have to have a plan to nurture those leads into that's all marketing into a one on
one conversation, which is where sales begins. And the first conversation is about showing anybody anything to buy.
It's 100%, about uncovering their needs, wants, desires, goals and objectives, and then figuring out where they fit in
your collection of avatars or your categories. And then having a nurturing program to move them along, to where
eventually you're putting a deal in front of them. And you're having a sales conversation about answering specific
questions about a deal they are seriously contemplating in and either getting them over the line to where they sign
the paper and wire the money, or you've learned something new about them, which is going to tell you that, okay, |
can't bring them a deal like this. Or maybe the timing is right. And that's you know, so it's either either on your side,
the deal is wrong. For them, something's changed, or you misunderstood what you heard the first time or that, that
they that that the the deal is right, but the timing is wrong. And then you just have to know what the timing is so that
you can follow up with them, and you let them know, hey, well, this deal is probably going to be gone. By the time
you're ready. But now that | know you're looking, I'll make sure you're at the top of the list. For the next deal that
comes along. It's like this one.

) Craig Kamman_ 21:28
@ Craig Kamman_ 23:50

Yeah, | love Simon Sinek. Yeah.

© Staci Gray 23:53

So one of the things he says is people don't buy what you do they buy why you do it. And so | think what you're
getting clear on the motives that you kept saying the motivation, but really what is your why What's your purpose for
the syndication business? Is it to solve a create financial freedom to create a legacy to solve tax problems to solve
whatever you can do that in your syndication business, and maybe your specific projects are going to be different,
like Dave Zook has a gazillion different projects. But the mission is still the same. So what he puts out there into the
marketplace is this is my why this is the problem I'm solving and he attracts those kinds of people. And then in his
one on one conversations, he facilitates a buying experience. He's not trying to sell them in anything. He's facilitating
a buying experience being saying, hey, needs, wants, desires, goals, objectives, and then oh, | have this project that
fits or if he doesn't, if | do, at some point, come across a project that fits, then you're tagged in my CRM that way and
| will come approach you with it. So | think Starting at the top with really what your why is what the purpose of your
syndication businesses is going to give you a lot of clarity, for just brand building doing have to have a project at that
point, you can just be brand building in your network. And even then even the people that are on your list that you
think aren't really qualified, you might be leading with something that isn't white there, maybe their concern is tax,
maybe their concern is legacy, maybe their concern is the economy. And if you lead with that, which is probably
similar things to what is innate in you, it might be a different conversation when you actually add projects. Does that
make sense?

© Craig Kamman 25:39

It makes a lot of sense. You put a lot of information in there. Some kind of digested all it boils down to if | can repeat
kind of what | interpreted is, | got to go back to the mission vision values and start, like you said, My Why? Before |

can really advance I'm, I’m kind of tripping over myself right now.

© Russ 26:01

Well, | think Craig part of it. And Stacy is 10,000%. Right. And you're you're 100% right in, in understanding, and this
is for everybody. Because, again, it's a human relationship you're developing, and the challenge that people who
have already experienced sales in one form or another, like if you if you've ever been in inside sales, and then you go
into outside sales, those are two completely different animals and people who are very good on inside sales,
sometimes really struggling outside sales, because nobody is coming in the door, you've got to go call on people and
get people to want to talk with you. So that's one level of challenge. People who have no experience, | was very
fortunate | never did inside sales, the only thing | ever learned was outside sales. And so that was great, because |
didn't have you know, any hang ups about the way | thought the world should work, you know, people, | didn't
understand why the people I'm talking to weren't interested, when you're an inside sales, anybody that walks in the
door is interested? Well, when you're in real estate sales, by the time your phone rings, somebody looked at a
property, they're already interested, when you're out there trying to talk to people about a syndication, they may not
be interested yet. They don't even know what syndication is. They they're you know, so you're in a very different if you
look in the understanding cycle of where people are at, you know, if you're used to entering into a relationship where
people are already primed, then you're you're going out in this business, and you're engaging people that you have
to do the priming, it feels like this is weird. Why doesn't this work? Well, that's because you have the filtration process
hasn't been established, a lot of what we both talked about, is creating that filtration process. And how do you do
that you have to lead with the right bait. Right? | mean, like if you're brokering single family homes, then you know
people. Right. And as you just keep having those conversations, a lot of people, a lot of thing, a lot of salespeople
don't, in this business don’t want to go talk to their list until they feel that they have a deal. And I'm saying you
should we say this all the time? No, you want to talk to your list when you don't have a deal. Because it totally helps
you remove your agenda. And you're just there to explore, with curiosity, who these people are, what they're
interested in, what their criteria is, how big they want to buy, how fast they want to move. And the whole time you're
expressing to them interest in them, which they like, no agenda about you selling them anything. But you're only
trying to figure out | want to bring you the perfect deal. I'm not saying | can. But if | could, is there any reason you
wouldn't want to look at it, if | find it. That's a trial close, I'll teach you that technique, you're going to hear me say
that 1000 times this weekend, right? | mean, you use different, | always exaggerate the technique when I'm coaching,
so you can see it and hear it. But in real world, you'll do it very subtly, and people won't even know you're doing it.
You know, when you get good. But the point is, you need to earn the right to stay in touch with the person and bring
them the deal when you have it. And you are going to go in with confidence knowing you have a good likelihood of
getting a warm audience because you did earn the right and you're going to be bringing something they're likely
going to have an appetite for.

Craig Kamman_ 13:57

So that's kind of the closing technique. Birds of a feather flock together. So using ceps example, let's say just that
affordable housing. How do you create that environment of who would have similar interest in that? | would assume
a lot of the investors he’s dealing with are also mission based as opposed to just cash return. Right?

Russ 14:18

Yeah, that goes back to the slide in secrets of successful syndication, which | will also cover today is who is my target
market? Where do they congregate? Because to be efficient, you want to go talk to a group of people that are fairly
like minded. That's why | love conferences. | love trying to tap into other people's databases, somebody is out there,
basically fishing with a bait. You know, like we're going to go to freedom fest. So who goes to freedom fest people
who are freedom minded libertarians, you know, conservative people, where you may or may not like them politically,
but at least if you're interested in that demographic, you there's gonna be a bunch of them. They're like, nearly 3000
of them and you can see who they're listed. into and what they're interested in and what they think you can get in
lots of conversations, New Orleans investment conferences, different money shows different real estate, investment
clubs are going to be different. Those are places that you can go where people at least have a degree of interest in
investing. And then inside of that they're going to be people that are presenting on different niches, single family
home conferences, multifamily investment, conferences, homes, Self Storage conferences, residential assisted living
conferences, Jean has this thing coming up in October, right. So depending on you know, who you are, as an investor
yourself, and as a syndicator, you can start looking around for what's out there where people congregating The other
way to do it, is to create your own meetup. | think Randy hubbs just just downloaded because | see it, the report we
did on how to start your own club. You know, we started our own mentoring club, Robert and | way back in 2002,
January 2002. And we started it because we wanted to attract people who were interested in investing in real estate.
And we said well, before people want to invest in real estate, they want to learn how to invest in real estate. So we'll,
we'll put together a curriculum and a faculty and start to teach and promote for people not to buy, but to learn how,
and we'll catch them early in their discovery process. So instead of competing with everybody, when they're already
out there in the market, looking we're going to build relationships with relationships with them way early, Dave Zook
figured out that the people who sell businesses have tax problems. So if he can identify small business owners and
catch them early, and start helping them work on their tax problems, he could find a big pool of liquidity. When
these people have their liquidity event. They got a lot of capital place. And they're interested in tax savings. Both he
and Eric Shelley have done a good job tapping into that. So you say well, where do people go to learn how to save
taxes? Well, they typically go to a CPA, well, maybe you can partner with a CPA and do a webinar or a seminar and
say how to save taxes when you sell your business. Now said, you don't have to be the expert, you host it, you put it
Craig Kamman_ 03:17

| must have sent us in a while ago. | don’t remember the question.

Russ 03:20

So it says branching off of the question today. Last sales call about the newsletter, you touched on the avatar, writing
a newsletter to the avatar. Does that ring a bell?

Craig Kamman 03:30

Yeah, I've got a lot of questions about. Yeah, just where to begin with that. I'll be there this weekend. So | think

Russ 03:41

what you said, you know, you said, I'm interested in breaking down my avatars, are there any stereotypical
groupings? Well, yeah, you have to start from someplace. So | totally think that you do start with the idea of a
stereotype and how do you determine what that stereotype is? You go out in the real world, and you talk to people.
And if you are in certain ponds, like when we go to the New Orleans investment conference, we know we're talking to
a bunch of people that are primarily interested in hard assets, gold, metals, mining, they're just kind of oriented that
way. When you talk to them, you learn what they're interested in, what they're concerned about what they think
about. And again, | just rattle off some stuff kind of automatically, but | want to slow down and and help you
understand what | did there. So what are they interested in? That's opportunity. What are they concerned about?
That's fear. So greed and fear, you're always fishing for the two sides. Any conversation is about trying to understand
what people are hoping for or afraid of. Right? And that's going to be present when you listen to the people they
listen to. You know, if you go into a conference room and you see a bunch of people all crammed in a Peter Schiff
room, those are people who are worried because what is Peter talk about everything that’s wrong. And if you know
that, then you know the where those Where those people are oriented, they want to hear what Peter has to say,
because they're concerned, you're going in other places, nobody's talking about, you know, hey, everything's rosy and
sunshine and unicorns, then you know, those people are, are, you know, interested in hope and opportunity. So you
want to make sure that you, you understand that. And then And then, as you form this picture in your mind of who
your ideal client is, it's part of, of who they are and what they're interested in. But it’s also part of who you are, and
who you want to do business with. The challenge that | see for many, many people in this business, is they get into
this business, and they think about the types of deals they want to do. And they think about the what they the
markets they want to be in. And in your case, cragen. And I'm I'm saying this, because you you put it in writing here is
that you got to find out that the group of people that you have built relationships with that may have money, aren't
interested in what you're offering. So basically what you said my investors are basically guys who could write the
check. But my deal so far mismatched, | basically built up a number of what | thought were investors, because they
have a lot of money, I'm assuming the deals are mismatched. So where I’m learning the deals are mismatched, which
| presume you're learning by going and taking deals to them and saying they're saying no, I'm not interested. So the
next question is, well, let me just finish this, | need to either get different deals or find different investors, or both, and
match them accordingly. Yes, exactly. True. So the question is, you have to ask yourself, what, you know, if you were
able to find deals that these people were interested in, first of all, do you understand what it is they want? You know
what it is? They don't want? Because they're saying no, but do you understand what they do want? If you do
understand what they do want? Then you have to ask yourself, Am | willing to go look for that? Or do | know where |
can find that? And if | do find that? Are those the types of deals that | want? So it’s not a matter of deals and money
being mismatched? It's it could be a question of whether the Avatar and you are mismatched. Because at the end of
50:26

Mitch,

Russ 36:29
Mitch. Okay. What's the name of the person he brought? Mike, Mitch. Okay. So Mitch and Mike. Okay, so I'm just

gonna say, okay, and I'm just gonna use you so so, you know, it's, uh, it's okay. So Mitch, you know, you set this up?
What are you hoping happens? Let him talk? Well, I've been talking to you, Mike. And you know, Mike told me blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. And so that's interesting, Mike. So tell me a little bit more about that. talk, talk, talk, talk, talk,
talk, talk, right, you don't have to do much talking, you just have to do a little bit of leading just like you said, and let
them talk. Where you have to be quick on your feet is when they give you things to work with. So you're listening to
what they're saying. And what they will give you is a lot of what, what they want, what they're hoping for what
they're looking for what they're trying to accomplish, why they took the call will just be a what, when they give you
the what, to the extent you feel you can and you just it's it’s art, you have to feel like if you can do this. So that's really
interesting. So you know, what | hear you saying is you're interested in this, tell me a little bit about why that's
important to you. You're going for the why. Right. And then what you're looking for is three to five things, you might
only get one or two, but you get to try and get | usually I'm happy with three, if | get five, great, but two or three is
usually enough that they want that | can give them. And | don't tell them when they give me the first one Oh, | can
do that. | wait. And | say okay, just make a mental note or have written note. And | try to get the other things. A lot of
times | can assume, going in what their needs are, if I've done my homework, | often will know it before they say it,
which means | can kind of lead them and make them say it. This is about raising awareness. Because people have
things in their heart. But they you're you're going to have a sales conversation with the brain. And the brain can't
deal with anything it's not aware of that's why people go to therapists, because people have all this crap going on
inside them. And they can't get it up to where they can deal with therapists asking questions and pulls it all up. Now
they can have an intellectual conversation about emotional issues. Well, when people want something that's an
emotional want, and you got to get it up. So you say, Well, what | hear you saying, you know, as you're interested in
this, is that right? Yeah, now they're aware. And everybody’s aware. And you get two or three of those. And now it’s
like, Okay, well, you know, our meetings winding down. I'm excited because | think | have a way | can help you do this.
So assuming | can do that. How would you feel about or, you know, why don't we schedule a follow up call, give me a
little bit of time to go to work, and I'll come back and I'll share with you my ideas. Okay. And | learned to sell that
way. Because one, it gave people a break, and it didn't feel like they were being railroaded. But more important, it
gave me a break. Because when | wasn't fast on my feet, | would need that time to digest what | learned to craft a
proposal that would really satisfy what they wanted to do. And then | would come back to the second meeting. And
in the second meeting, it would be Hey, last time we talked, these are the things we talked about. The everybody
agree. Yeah. Has anything changed? No. So that's what Tom Hopkins calls the recap. You bring everybody back to
the mental focus in the emotional Status where they were interested, and they know why they're interested in what
they're looking for. He said, Well, great, well, I'm excited because | think I've got an answer that's going to scratch
everybody's itch. And here's what that looks like. And then you present it, now you've earned the right to present it,
you're likely that they're going to be interested, or at least you're gonna get enough interest that either there’s a
follow up meeting, and you keep advancing towards the goal, you know, everybody wants to throw the touchdown,
not only one play, and I'm going to score. But in the real world, it doesn't work that way. Usually, it's like, Okay, I'm
going to try to score but | may only gain 10 yards. All right, that's the first now and that's okay, I'm still in the game.
And I'm just gonna keep advancing the ball until | get over the goal line. And so you just gotta, you know, you're
gonna have to learn to play that as you go through. So take good notes. After the initial call. Again, | did this, | used
to go out and sit in the parking lot of these corporations. And | would write down the conversation, I'd write down
what | learned what | thought what | did what | could have done different. | replayed it and rehearsed it in my mind.
And eventually, that helped me make sure each time | went into a subsequent meeting, | was much sharper, much
better prepared, because | coached myself up. It's not like | didn't know what to do. It's just that in the heat of the
moment, | forgot to do it. | still forget. But the more you practice, the more instinctive it becomes, the more natural
JO

you work your way through the technique and you find yourself doing without even knowing you're doing it. That's
when you're at mastery. So did you have any particular concerns are things that are gnawing at you, you know,
maybe your gut is telling you something you need to prepare for?

41:37

Yeah, | guess it's a lunch meeting. So I'll be in person with them. So

Russ 41:44

good. You can read the body language? Yeah. probably harder to take notes. Yeah, right. Be good at taking mental
notes. Use anchors. | use my hands. Okay. Yeah, they tell you something, you anchor it here tell you Second thing,
you anchor it here. That way when you eat your your physiology to a mental note, when you can usually go back and
trigger it. Okay. Yeah, one thing. Ben, is that you?

Ben 42:10

Yeah, | was just gonna say, Ben, after you get done. | did one of these sales things last night in Kansas City. And when
| left out a five hour drive to Oklahoma City, but | pulled out my phone, and | just recorded for like, 10 minutes and
recap the conversation. So that was just one thing that | did, you know, at least get my thoughts of what what well,
what, what could have gone better by documented?

Russ 42:36

Yeah, perfect. Great idea. Thank you, then, of course, it’s easy to get those things transcribed these days, too. So you
may

@ Staci Gray 42:44

have to choose to do that. One thing to say, and | have found that sometimes trying to get the technique, right, | put
so much pressure on myself that I’m like, so rigid in conversations because | want to do the the technique correctly.
So | think a practice that | do is | try to just get my heart, right. Like if | had one word like set my intention, if | one
word, when | go in there, how | want everyone to feel or what | want the experience to be like, if | can go in with my
heart centered, then | know this is probably too, whoo or feeling but you've even go in with like, hey, | want everyone
to feel heard. | want everyone to | want to build trust. That's usually a big one for me, anytime | go into any type of
conversation is how can | build trust. Because once you build trust, you have the opportunity for a second, third,
fourth conversation where you can get that technique right or it close them or whatever. So if you can go in with your
heart in a place where you can really just be centered and not be the priority, what's going to come out of your
mouth is going to be very valid and appropriate, and the people are gonna feel the energy of hearing you even if you
don't get the words, specifically correctly.

@ Russ 43:59

That's right. That's again, 10,000%. Right. And you'll hear me say this weekend, and I've said it before, it's never ever,
ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, never ever about you ever. If your heart being right is you are desperate to
May 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales and
Marketing w...

@ Wed, 9/22 4:34PM © 1:06:24

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, sales, deal, interested, conversation, syndication, talk, business, person, technique, question, club, money, big, ben, put,

create, problem, salesperson, investors

SPEAKERS

Russ, Craig Kamman, Ben, Staci Gray

Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mystery club it is Russ and this is our Ask the mentors for sales and marketing for May of 2021. And
we have a pretty good little group of folks here we're getting ready to head into the How to Win funds and Influence
People sales training this weekend | fly out tomorrow morning, excited about it. And hopefully I'm gonna see
everybody on the call there and maybe some of you watching after the fact. So anyway, we're gonna have a good
time. Obviously, you know, we say all the time, nothing happens until somebody sells something. Sales solves every
problem. And Robert Kiyosaki is famous for saying that all entrepreneurs which syndicators are need to be good at
sales. Because when you can raise money, when you can make deals, when you can recruit talent, you have the
ability to be able to build a business, and solve problems and attract all the resources you need to take on whatever
challenges and opportunities you you find out there. Without sales skills, it's harder, and a big, big part of sales is
marketing, and getting in position. So we spend a lot of time talking, sales and marketing are two separate functions.
Marketing is designed to get you in position and give you someone to talk to who's pretty ready to talk to you. And
then. And then sales is actually that one on one engagement, where you're going to have a conversation with
somebody uncover their needs, wants, desires, goals and objectives, and then attach some emotion to that test their
commitment, and then offer them an opportunity to engage to solve their problem, to do what's in their best interest.
And that's where a professional salesperson approaches it. If you approach it any other way, then you're slimy, then
you're the type of person that people feel like are doing things based on what is in your own interest rather than in
their interest, and they won't trust you. And the essence of this business especially but all sales in general, is trust,
building a high level of trust in both your competency and your ethics. And when it comes to ethics, it’s not just your
honesty, but it's your it’s your commitment to doing what's best for the other person, like a fiduciary, you know, you
hear these people in the financial services business all the time talking about bragging about their fiduciary, they're
a fiduciary, what does that mean? It means they're obligated, either by law or by code of ethics to put the client's
interest above their own. Well, you should always approach this business that way. In fact, | think every salesperson
should put put their their interest that way. And if you do that, then you're going to have more trust, more referrals,
more repeat business, and life just gets a whole lot easier if you go out there. And you're selfish person only leading
with your own need, and answering the question what's in it for me, then pretty soon people just smell that and they
don't, they don't feel good about it. So that's my little opening monologue. We do have a question only one
submitted by Craig. So Craig, I'm gonna call you up and let you go first. And then we'll see what happens. If anybody
else has additional questions.
them that's not the part that that I'm worried about. I'm worried about if you start to amass some degree of volume, |
guess, of leads organizing that chaos, my strength is not how to build something that has some degree of efficiency
and secret and content. And if | understood correctly for listening to that series is folks like your team can help us |
guess design something like that, that we can then execute, Am | understanding that correctly, because that is a
definite weak area of my | don't want to create a big mess that | don't know how to manage.

) Staci Gray 57:40

JO

Yeah, it’s really hard to sit in the visionary and operate our seat at the same time. So we do vision mission values, I'm
where you want to be in 10 years. And then put you in your sweet spot, which sounds like brand ambassador
salesperson relationship builder, raising capital, and then everything under the hood we handle. Which you can ask
Ben Dickey, he is one of our he works with us, um, and then several of the other club members. So are you going to
be there this weekend?

58:15

Yeah, looking forward to it for sure. Okay,

Staci Gray 58:16

yeah. Well, you can talk with me more there. And then also with all 10 of the members who work with us daily.

Russ 58:27

| think what you'll find in Stacey and | covered this in one of our sessions, | think we called it everything's a process.
And everything is a process sales is a process, you're gonna learn a three step process at the table, engage the touch
the heart, engage the mind, it’s a three step process to selling. When you're in a sales interview, you go through those
three processes, it's fractal, your marketing works that way. Inside each component, those components exist. You can
automate a lot of things in your marketing in your in your operations. And so marketing is the thing that you're doing
that gets people to that individual interview where the art happens. It's hard to program, a sales interview, maybe
some today through artificial intelligence, somebody will figure out a way to do it. But right now, that's not the case.
And so the the secret of, | think what you're instinctively feeling, J that Stacy's touching on is, is that the goal is to
build a team and a set of processes around a salesperson. So the only thing is salesperson or the majority of the
thing a salesperson is spending their time doing is engaging in those interpersonal conversations where they're
getting to know the prospect and they are uncovering those needs, wants desires, goals and objectives, attaching
emotion to it and gaining commitment to take whatever the next incremental step is until you can plug them back
into the automation. You know, and that's what | do. So you know, in In the provider department, for example, when
the real estate guys are bringing on what we call providers, which are basically sponsors, you know, we get people
who solicit us all the time. And the team looks at our current offering and decides whether or not they think it's a fit.
If they do think it's a fit, then they will do some preliminary research and bring it to me. And then I'll say, yeah, and
they do deeper research. And then they that backgrounder is done, and then then they set the appointment. And in
the appointment, that’s where we do the sales, we do, you know, uncovering the needs, wants desires, goals and
objectives talk about how can we solve their problem, right? What do they want? They want to promote their
business. Okay, well, what does that look like? What do you sell that at? Uh, this is how we do it over here. So for us
to work together, you know, these are some of our ideas. Does that sound good? Yes or no. And there you go, Yeah,

that sounds good. Great. Well, then here's the next step, I’m going to turn you back over to the team, and they're
JO

You had talked to Randy downloaded some instructions. Yeah,

Russ 21:32

you just send an email to club at Real Estate guys. radio.com Robert, and | wrote like a special report 12 things
because we had this idea, we may do it, where someday we would start a national network of real estate investor
clubs. And we would do you know, online training like this, and people would have local meetup groups. And we
wanted to find people who we thought would be interested in doing that. And so we thought, well, let's do a show on
starting a club, and then put out a CTA, how to start your own club. And then we'll get a whole list of people that are
good candidates to recruit into B club leaders, if we ever decided to do that. See how that works. Right? We Yeah, we
just drew some bait in the water to attract the right avatar. And then when they bet we know, okay, here now we got
a group of people, they've either have started or interested in starting, or at least at one time, we're interested in
starting a club. And if we come alongside them and offer them an opportunity to partner with us to grow a local
club, we might be able to build a whole bunch of local communities, where we have networks of people out there
that we can tap into for whatever down the road.

22:29

No, we just asked for report club at Real Estate radio guys calm and

Russ 22:34

club at Real Estate guys. radio.com. And you'll get the report. Thank you. Okay, so Craig, we spent a bunch of time
on that. But that’s what you get when you are the only person that pre submits a question.

Craig Kamman 22:45
Thank you.

Russ 22:46

So I'm going to give you a lot of love. Appreciate that. But now that we've passed through that, does anybody have
any questions or comments about that specific topic before we just kind of open up to any other questions that you
have, and what I’m always looking for guys and gals, his real world, right? Where you're getting stuck in the real
world, where we're in the real world, you get up and you're like, I'm afraid to call anybody, | don't know what to say, |
don't know what to do. Or | got into a conversation when completely sideways. Or, you know, | don't know how to
even get people to want to talk to me, whatever it is, the closer to real world it is, the more relevant it's going to be to
everybody. But before we go there any questions or comments about what we just discussed with? With Greg?

® Staci Gray 23:31

| have a comment. So | think you spent a lot of time on. I’m closing like the sales aspect of it. Which is really good.
But | think what one thing that Craig, | don’t know, have you read any of Simon cynics books? Or have you seen
understand their needs, wants desires, goals and objectives and to find a way to help them any way that you can't. If
you lose that if everything you say and do reflects that. Your technique doesn’t matter. What what they will pick up is
that you are 100% about them and what you will leave with is understanding their needs, wants desires, goals and
objectives and some idea about how you can help them that that's the technique. Right? That is the one thing you
get that one thing right everything else takes care of itself. And it's just so so so hard, because we think oh my god, |
need to fund this deal. I'm really interested in this deal. | really want to get this deal funded. | really need to make the
money. | really | and That's right, you're committing suicide. It can't ever you can't think that way. They can't feel that
you will never lose sight of what's in it for you, you won't, don't worry about it, you don’t have to focus on it. You don't
have to think about it. You don't have to take notes. You don't have to try to remember, you don't have to remind
yourself a little post it note, oh, yeah, I'm here to make money. You don't have to worry about that that is ever
present. What you have to discipline yourself to do when you're in a sales conversation is be so obsessed with
understanding how can | help this other person, that it's congruent with everything you say, everything you do, the
way you look, the way you smile, the way you walk through everything. And if you do that, you'll crush it. That’s the
secret. Not that hard to secret. And it works. And of course, you know, to uncover the technique of learning how to
uncover that stuff is what we're talking about. If you get focused on practicing technique, but you don't have your
heart, right, people will smell it as being technique and you'll be phony. So, and | say all the time, when you have
clarity of vision, strategy and tactics become evident, if you are clear in your vision, who am I, I'm here to solve
somebody's problem. That's who | am. I'm here to get to know this person's problem, and to get them to trust me to
tell me their problem. And then to trust me to help them try to solve it. And if | can't solve it myself, then I’m going to
do my best to find someone who can. Because that's all that matters. And when | do that, the universe will reward
me. And that's true. And often you'll have a hand in that because you'll have a business model that rewards you for
solving people's problems. Make sense? That was gold right there. So for those of you that don't know that, I'd
bookmark that and keep that. play that back to yourself every time you go into a sales conversation. Just so you
remember who you are and what you're there to do. Excellent. Seth, welcome to the party. Hey, Russ, everyone. | was
definitely talking about you earlier, in a good way. | don't remember what it was. Anyway. Okay. So we got 12 minutes
ago, is Oh, yeah, yeah, that's right. That's right. His passion for affordable housing. Right, his Don Quixote, devotion
to serving underserved communities at almost any expense. There's no price Apple Pay to help people get into
affordable housing. Alright, so what else? So we've kind of you have rested to me be like SAP? Yeah, that’s what |
said, Be like set. Okay, so we got 12 more minutes. And |, you know, happy to ramble. But | don't really have a lot else
to say, I've got a whole weekend full of sales training in front of me, but I'm here to answer your questions coach you
up on any real life situation. So who wants you, Ben Ben Dickey?

Ben 48:03

Got it. I've got a cup, but all that others asked, as well. So I've got two investors that I've talked to probably two or
three times both feel very warm. But it seems like there's just always this obstacle to just closing. And so | want to be
respectful of them and not continue to press. But what are sort of your tips, tricks, principles on? When do you make
kind of that last?

Russ 48:31
Yeah, yeah. So how do you tell somebody with respect it's time to crap or get off the pot? Yeah, yeah. Okay, here's

the way you do it. What you do is you say, hey, Ben, you know, what we've, we've had four or five conversations. And
every time you know, you've expressed a degree of interest. And what | understood is that, here’s the problems you're
trying to solve. And that we've talked about kind of the timing and stuff. And it seems like the timing is right, it seems
like these deals that we're bringing scratched the edge, but for some reason, you're not moving forward, am | miss
reading the situation? What am | missing? And then you're quiet. That's called wha wait for answer, which means you
don't speak. And it’s awkward. But eventually, they'll say something. And so, and the other thing you can add to is
like, you know, the reason I'm asking is, | don't want to waste your time. Right? If there’s something here, like, you
that when someone calls you and they're interested in a property, even though it's the single family home, you
already know that. But But if you're out there talking to an investor that can be interested in anything, right? So you
got a lot of filtering to do well, how do you do the filtering one, as | talked about, you fish in the right ponds, and and
based on you know, just your best guess, and then and then you learn who you like and who likes you. And then the
other part of it is is to Stacey's point, which is great, which is you do lead with who you are, because people like
people, even an affinity to a brand is usually an affinity to a culture that they experience through the human being
they're interacting, if | call up Cox Communications today, because I'm having internet problem. And | have a great
experience. | feel good about Cox, | might not even remember that person's name. But it was that person who made
me feel good about Cox. Whereas if | call in and | have a horrible experience with that person, | feel bad about Cox
even though Cox was being represented by that one person out of 10s of 1000s, or hundreds of 1000s. | don't know
how many people they employ. It's a lot. But to me, Cox is that person I'm talking to at that moment in time. And you
just have to remember this is a people business. And people buy to Simon cynics point through Stacey motives. You
know, | mean, when you think about the syndication program, and you think about why Robert and | are here, big,
hairy, audacious goal pull $100 billion a year, every year, year after year out of Wall Street, how are we going to do
that 10,000 syndicators raising on average $10 million a year. Okay, that’s a mission because | hate Wall Street. It's
personal. It is. And and so you know, if people like that great. If they don't like that then fine. Right? That's fine with

me. I’m just telling you who | am and why | do what | do. And why I'm desperate to see you be successful,

@ Staci Gray 30:01

it puts you on the same side of the table as them. So it doesn’t feel transactional and salesy. It's like, hey, if you
believe what | believe, let's do this. Yep. Versus love, hey, | have this, I'm trying to get you to do it, it’s put you on the
same side. And it just makes the experience for everyone so much more enjoyable. And if you don't believe what |

believe, let's not waste each other's time. And it's polarizing. And it's so and clarifying, which is even better.

© Russ 30:29

And the essence of what Stacy is saying is that your mission, your goal is to get on the same side of the table. And
you do that two different ways you do that by what we are accomplishing together, externally. And by what we are
accomplishing together for them personally. Okay, that’s the key. You know, those of you anybody that's been
through the inner circle program, when we onboard you into inner circle, we ask you bet your internal and your
external mission. Why? So we can get on the same side of the table with you. Right, none of you, | hope feel like
customers in our program, we don't think of you as customers, we don't treat you like customers, we are teammates
on a mission, trying to do two things, defund Wall Street and enrich you. That's it. And your mission is to basically do
the same thing. But on, you know, on an individual basis, and your mission is to enrich your client by bringing them to
do so you're gonna help advance their goals. And why are you doing that? Because the deals you do make a
difference in some way, shape, or form, whatever that is. Now, your mission, could you just be 100%, about helping
people achieve their financial goals for the marketplace, that's good enough. If the marketplace feels that you're
100% about them, they'll buy? If you show him something that makes sense, solves a problem they have. Okay, but
but you know, but but you can you can add to that, when you do identify a group that wants something more than
just return on investment, they want to make a difference. They want to help a people group a community, a cause

whatever it is,

® Craig Kamman 32:09

are we gonna go through some of that mission vision values this weekend? Or is that gonna have no
the day is a human relationship? Yes, it's a financial relationship, that's a glue. But that is only the glue, the part that
what it really is, is a relationship between two people and investor in a syndicator. That makes sense. So so you learn
you learn by getting into those conversations, and you get in you learn by going out into the marketplace. And you
know, like you look at a guy like SAP inner circle member, who is not only got devoted to his investors, and but he's
also very devoted to his mission, he just really is about affordable housing. And he is willing to, you know, go through
very difficult deals and neighborhoods and a lot of tough management situations, because he's so devoted to
serving that group. And if somebody came to say, Yeah, well, | really want to do you know, exotic resort property in
Manhattan, and I'm willing to write a check for 10 million, or 20 million or $100 million, well, maybe the money would
move SAP, but he would have to slow down and ask himself, hey, is that what where | really want to play? Is that
where | want to spend my life energy? Or? Or is this just not a match? | don't care how big the check is. Okay.

Craig Kamman 08:23

That makes sense. So the avatar is basically motivation. And it's not really like a persona.

Russ 08:31

Yes, getting your motivation and their motivation. Yep. And motivation isn’t just what they want their money to do, at
least in terms of a financial result, some people will invest based on what they want their money to do from a social
result. They may have a desire, shared housing, special needs, they may have a desire to support certain industries,
or certain communities. So you know, when when the real skill set, and we're going to talk about that this weekend, is
that when you're interviewing somebody, you're not showing them a deal and going, Hey, what do you think? But
you're really asking them, hey, in your perfect world, Mr. prospect, if | were to put a deal in front of you that checked
all the boxes, not just the financial boxes, but all the boxes, what you'd like it to do financially, what you find
interesting, how you'd like to see your money, make a positive impact in the world, what would that look like? And let
them talk. Okay, and learn about that person. And then when you're done with that interview, debrief yourself, take
great meticulous notes, and start to figure out are the things that you need to categorize them by in your database.
So that when you want to query your database, who do | know who's interested in this social cause? Who do | know
who's interested in this marketplace? This demographic, this niche, or this geography? Who do | know? Who is, you
know, hot to go? Who do | know who is incubating, you know, what can | do to develop those people that aren't
ready to go to help them get ready, What's missing? And that's the other part of the conversation. So if | were to put
the deal in front of you that fits that criteria is just second question now. How quickly would you want to move? So
about about how big is your appetite? In other words, you know, I’m not asking for your personal financial, but are
you a $10,000? Guy, you $10 million guy or somewhere in between? Right? And they'll tell you. And so now you've got
the second piece, how quick Are they ready to go? And how big are they willing to bite? Because now you know what
they want. And you know, how big they want, and how fast they want. And if they're not ready to go right away? And
then you see what if you're not ready to go right away, what, what needs to happen for you to be ready, because |
want to know, you know, | don't want to approach you, when you're, you're not ready to go, | don't want to pester you
get again, I'm just constantly diffusing a sales agenda, letting know I’m here to help you. But when you're all ready to
go, | want to make sure that I’m bringing you things you actually want to look at, you might say, well, I've got it, you
know, like with me with my situation, oh, you know, my, my, my wife is really ill, I'm not gonna be looking any deals
until this is resolved. Or I'm in the middle of moving or I’m just, | just launched a new startup or I'm in the process of
selling my business. | really am interested, but | can't detract my attention from these other things that are higher
priority in my life. Okay, great. Well, I'll I'll just touch base with you, maybe once a month, see how you're doing. And
if something changes, or if | find a deal that's so hot, | think you may want to bump it up a little bit, then | may
mentioned that to you, is that okay with you, and you're getting permission to stay engaged. And then you're going
to create a nurture program, you know, where you're going to take if you have a big list where you're beginning to
categorize people, based on what you're learning, but your categories aren't stereotypes that you pull out of a
crackerjack box, or out of some marketing thing. They're stereotypes that you create for yourself by talking to your
