JO

JO

JO

my shoes because it's, it's a bit ambiguous because it’s in the closing documents, two
documents that conflict and they're taking the condition of one document we're taking
the position and the other. What this is, Victor, you there? I'm here. You're there. Hey,
would you want to read this whole call?

45:04

Everybody's just got a similar situation and they're almost begs the same answer. The
same as it now is the time. Push for sure to play hardball with your bank, with a lender.
And the easiest way to play hardball is I'm not paying the loan. Unless we work
something, | want to be fair, | want you to be fair. But meanwhile, in these circumstances,
you ought to be happy that you got somebody that is ready to stay or stand up and make
their payments. And if you if you do it, and you play hardball, you're going to win. Okay,
for sure. But has to go up the ladder. Right now the bank looks like they think they've got
all the cards. They think that you have to do it in the doing you a favor, and you got to
turn it around and say, Hey, wait, am I'm gonna do you a favor? I'm gonna let you keep
this loan on the books as a current loan, I'm going to pay something that the blurton the
best that | can. But you got to work with me because | am a good borrower. And | want
you to treat me as a good borrower, even though we have dire circumstances at the
present time. We sound like the same record. Yeah, it’s it's got a familiar ring to it. It’s got
a familiar ring to it. Yeah, the bank, understand the banks don't want to take over
property. What they want is to get their money back. Well, how do they get their money
back, if you don't pay? That starts the ball rolling. They don't want to foreclose, they don't
want to, they don't want to want you to make waves. And if they know that you're going
to, you're going to going to take that position, and you firm, they will do something, but it
has to go up the chain of command in the bank. So the desire you're talking to is that they
were not the final decision may go up to the president of the bank or so or committee or
loan committee and say, here's the situation. We have a loan of X dollars, and it's not
being paid. Now we can get good payday with the borrower says he's ready to do
something reasonable. But he won't do what we want, because we're unreasonable. Hang
in there negotiated work.

47:34

So George, would it be reasonable for Sep to demand that they send it back to loan
committee to get that fixed?

47:41
JO

JO

JO

JO

back off. Okay, so

20:45

in this situation to actually make the threat would you advise because the current guy I'm
working with is a, you know, building code zoning lawyer, should | kick him to the side and

go go higher, as you call it? To make this

20:58

threat get a bulldog? Yeah. How do | find the Bulldog? by that? | don't know. What will you
jurisdiction, but there are ones that would have taken it on there to have they've brought
suits against the city or what have you and been successful? Somebody that the city
hates the hates to deal with? Okay. Awesome. That's it, it will take time. But once the
paper is, once you're pushing the papers, that they indicate a potential liability on behalf
of the municipality, and indicate that you've your choir lawyer or whoever, as to say, my
clients dead serious. Here's what we lost. And what we're losing, oh, every day that you
made a delay in is which is and it got worse. And so Meanwhile, it what's the cost thing on
a daily basis. So if the longer they delay, the cost is going to go up? So you're not putting
in for a certain amount certain. You're putting in for whatever damages You have until this
is revoked. So to continue so long as the the meter is constantly running. Yeah, yeah.
Okay, it'll work. Okay, cool. Well, hey, |

22:09

appreciate that. Victor, do you think | missed any part of that situation? No, |

22:13

think you've pretty much covered it. Okay. George, thank you. You're welcome. Okay,
next. This question is from Susie in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Now, she couldn't be on the
line. So I'll read the question for her. So her parents have a loan that's coming due with a
bank in two weeks on a quite a large property. It’s 170 acres, and there's a historic 15,000
square foot mansion on the property. And they've discussed with the bank, the idea of
extending the existing loan rather than a renewal or or refinance. The bank has said
verbally that they are okay with extending the loan to value ratio is fairly low, it’s less than
50%. And the bank's been somewhat unresponsive in the last few weeks, which has them

concerned. Now, they don't believe that they would actually qualify for a refinance at this
JO

JO

ona payroll at this point for $50,000 a year. And this is the same lawyer that was making
$500,000 a year last year. But now Where does he go? Does he or she would they go. And
only wise is a job? No one thing is looking at, it's not going to be low range. Because if
they have something better they're going to go but short range you can fill in. And that's
exactly what led to the joy of apparel. That's exactly what you'll be doing. Your need is for
these these hires people for long term contracts. With short range you got you got to pick
up the crop. And if it works out, fine, they'll like it, they'll have it have the job, and then
they can have an opportunity for advancement. You don't have to pay him because the
market is using it in your favor. It's not you looking into a market where there isn't
personnel, it's personnel in the market looking for a job. Great advice. Thank you. Yeah, do
we cover but | wouldn't hold off developing just on the unless that’s what you want to do.
Everybody else will probably do the same thing because they're nervous. And I'm not
saying you shouldn't be nervous. But that's the time the best deals are made. If in fact you
make a good deal. That's very true. Very seems to be very attractive, but you couldn't get

under good circumstances. Okay, thank you. You're welcome.

42:55

Awesome. Let's go with Southern California suffer either. Victor. Hey, George, how are

you? I'm fine. Jeff, what's up?

43:11

Thank you for taking my question. So we recently closed on a refinance, and it was in the
middle of COVID-19 was in we close early April, lender changed the terms of the deal at
the last minute. They basically friend to put the deal on hold until the market stabilized or
we can we can find a way to get creative and get the deal done. So | opted to lower LTV
higher interest rate. And | through animal What if we pay like the first eight months of
mortgage payments upfront, and they agreed, after closing their loan servicer contacted
me and said of those eight months that we paid only four months of the first four for
mortgage payments are going to be waived and the other four months are just going to
be added into their reserve account. We don't get access to those funds until we pay off
the loan. So that was basically a deal breaker if | would have known that's what their
intent was, we wouldn't have backed off from the deal. The settlement statement shows
eight months of mortgage reserves, but the lender did not update their loan documents.
So it still shows four months waived and four months in the back end. So it's not entirely
the lenders fault. | overlooked it in my my attorney overlooked it. And we still want to keep
a good relationship with this lender. But they're not. They're not cooperating. We have

another loan that we want to do with them in a couple of weeks. So what would you do in
JO

JO

JO

JO

talking about a restaurant, which is the first thing is that as a business, which has got all
kinds of problems now potentially is what's going on and running around the world. And in
addition is a not a knowledgeable readers, real estate developer. One day, he’s gonna
give me all the position. You could do miracles with this. Just sit Wait, sit and wait. Fine, at
least you have the advantage you have if you put something in writing is he has
something that’s known as against will wait for the future. You want to wait for a future?

Okay, let's wait.

33:34

That's everything we're doing anyways, is that we sit till the end of the month, not the end
of the month, think longer frame, this uncertainty is going to last for a longer period of
time. And the more it the more is the longer it lasts or what have you going to have
people that that are involved that would be that would make a a decision that they might
not ordinarily make what they just did they get too nervous. And say now's a good time to
bail out or to solve the problem. Wonderful time to negotiate towards it. You can do
miracles in this in this environment. If you had the courage now, do you think it's

damaging to us at all that we prior to this happening? We had already sort of negotiated
and spoken the price? No. Yes, the answer here but I'm not keeping that price. The world
has changed there therefore at that point I'm not going to vote for Zack are gonna lower
my price. And at this point, if you're going to hold out longer, I'm going to lower it again.
So if you want to do something now and you want to work on some kind of a deal, where
you and | understand one another on today, we'll do that if you don't you want to wait
good. We'll talk and negotiate later on but my price goes down Okay, Okay, here, we got
this next. All right.

35:03

Let's go to Amy. Amy, you're on the line. Amy, let me unmute you here. One second. There

you go. Can you hear me now? Yes. Hey, George.

35:26

Hi. So | own real estate development company, | have six projects underway, in addition to

raising, | have five kids from five bucks.

30:97
JO

JO

JO

JO

11 projects.

35:39

Exactly. And so my husband helps me with analytical details of self storage and our, our
residential real estate portfolio. On the multifamily development side of the business, I'm
working on my own including doing all this, | do all the entitlements, the capital, raising
the construction management, the investor relations, basically, | need some help. I'm
unclear on the best type of help. Some advisors are proposing that | bring on virtual
assistants into the business to help offload some of my work. I'm thinking that | mean,
what do you mean virtual assistants? Like people out of other countries or you know, like,
they're, they're not local to me, they're like jack, and son, | just give them | give them an
exact order, and then they follow it. And, and, and I'm thinking | need to bring on one or
more senior people into the business to offload some larger responsibilities. What's your
been your experience in running development projects, and how is the best to set up the

organization for success?

36:53

is easy. No, you first of all your your way your organization runs, now it's it’s very top
heavy, you can't do that. You're doing too much too many items. You're too personally
involved, which is good. But you need someone in an executive capacity to pick up all the
loose ends and all the details and tell you what they believe or what they think. And you
make some kind of a decision based on what they have uncovered. And you can get
somebody to do that. And you should, that's very, very important. Because you can't do it

the way you do where you do it. Now you're too close to the situation.

37:35

And do you think that's flat better with

37:38

virtual we get somebody got somebody, you got somebody who's a controller or
somebody who's got the experience, and there are plenty of morale now. | mean, you got
good, the labor pool for this type of situation is very good. | say very good, you're gonna
get somebody that's got a lot of experience. But there are they're there on the years, when

| say in yours. So you may get somebody that's been doing this, and now he's 60 years old,
JO

JO

want to be known as a banker who's taking advantage of a cookie cutter straight, faster
fee. And I'm not, of course, going to withdraw them out. | mean, the court says the judges
are not going to tolerate that. Because it's not right, the bank is not losing any money. But
the borrower could lose, they could lose their investment, which is they shouldn't lose
except for the fact set for what happened. So we got everything in favor of the borrower

as against the bank. Great time to negotiate. Yep, yep. So,

09:30

when lenders are looking for a seasoning period, or even investors are looking for a
seasoning period under this new normal, whatever that is, what should we be looking for?
Because, you know, often lenders ask for 12 months of seasoning. That's probably not

reasonable.

09:47

Well, what would you get out? goshi? Eight, oh, know what this is? If you don't do anything,
they can't do anything. What are you going to repeal? If you came back a deal? What are
they going to do now? | think they can't, then the they have to do something to you to
keep it they don't want to have a loan on the books, which is non performing loan. So you
say, Okay, | will consider this with will, there won't be a non performing loan, it could
perform, but we have to rearrange, | need help because of the financial situation. And you
should you should give it to me, because that will make will keep you as a as a current
loan on the books, which is very important in your balance sheet. If the borrower has all
the edges here. This is not a this is an ideal climate for a borrower not to not dock to
make payments or effectively to renegotiate the terms of the loan on a short range. So,
it's | wouldn't say that the bank would make the loan half and I'll pay it off at this point, or
is the interest rate lower? But | wouldn't | wouldn't take anything away from them, that
they're going to make an increase because it makes them happier, or it satisfies the
whims of the bank president to some people there. Forget it. Absolutely not. | love it. | love
it. Yeah. All I'm saying is, you know, who's ever on a telephone call, you got a loan with a
bank or not at the time, boy, you can do tricks with that banker, all you have to do is
plead poverty? What are they going to do? Nothing. They're going to try to keep the loan
current, to say I'll do all do everything | can in my power, but | need your help. | can’t make
the payments, | can't do this. We got to restructure, | need a six month extension. And
then we'll talk again in six months. But I’m not don't make it worse. What happened in is,
when the virus is not my fault, and the property is still the value is still there. And it’s still a
good loan? You they do not want a loan to go into default? Absolutely not. They'll do

everything they can to stop it. Right. So it's a time for borrowers just to just you know, to
JO

JO

working on a redevelopment project for some time now. In this 40 jurisdiction, the process
for adding additional structures to a property goes like this, first, you get approved for a
development order. And then after you get approved for a development order, you go into
get permitted for your individual structures, before | purchased this property, and while in
due diligence, | began to develop an order process, there were several review departments
in the development order process, including the local fire department. Three months
before purchasing the property, the fire department approved our development order.
Well, fast forward several months and closing on the property. We're now undergoing the
permitting process, and we get a notification that not only is the fire department not
going to issue the permits, but now they want us to go back to the development over a
process and at 1800 feet of eight inch water mains with hydrants, which is going to result
in an unexpected increase of hard costs about 20% to the project. The fire department
has admitted that yes, they approved the development order. But that was a clerical error.
And they accidentally were looking at another project when they issued the approval on
ours. | hired an attorney to review the case. And he's informed me that per the building
codes, the municipality does not have the authority to revoke the approved development
order. And their air does not give them a right to not issue our building permits. So we've
notified the fire chief of this and while he agrees, he’s now arguing some facts that are
irrelevant and not going to sign off on the permits. Yep, my attorney informs me that we
can make the case to the courts and likely win, however, that's going to take months at
best. And it’s going to stall the project. | have debt on the property and investors to please
and we're now weeks behind construction at no fault of our own. So what is my fast path

to resolving this issue getting the

17:07

fast track your fast track, basically is is that yes, you bring your action against the fire
department against the municipality, whatever is the big claim for damages as to how
much you're going to lose as a result of what of their trip, they're revoking or attempting
to revoke the permit. And the what how it's going to cost you original financing, you can
paint a very dark picture, because it’s there, you put you come on you say fine, tell us why
we're fighting this out at that point, you're going to end up the fire department's going to
be liable for x million dollars as a result of of what they're actually sure | may lose the
property or what else we can plant a very bleak picture. You put that your lawyer having
put that in writing with it and start the action accordingly. And you'll see what will happen
how fast the fire department will back up backtrack.

18:00
JO

JO

JO

JO

05:59

on a new origination, we're kind of negotiating leverage does does a borrower have?

06:06

Well, it's a question what the bank has, but understand banks have plenty of money. They
have plenty of money. You know, all of all, the monies that came up did all the stimulus
bills that were passed through in the United States and Congress, they're all guaranteed
by the United States government. The banks don't have to worry about it, they're going to
get paid. If not necessarily by a borrower, you're going to get paid by the government.
That's why the loans were made the banks are willing to make a COVID It's a non risk
situation. So what we're talking about really here is is making new loans as they make
new loans, that they are entitled to whatever the traffic will bear knowing the inconsistent
the inconsistency of the market at this particular point in time, it might not be a propitious
time to make the loans because it's just uh, you know, it's too uncertain, however on
existing loans that are there. | would tell him you know, basically it's a but you can play
hardball with the bank nicely. Sure. nicely. Dad, it'd be happy Hey, I'm struggling to make
a living and you're trying to call in my loan. You can press the bank's very, very hard to
send they'll they'll they'll they'll do have to work with you. So now's a good time to you can
push the bank pretty good. You know, say | can't get afford to pay this. | got to reduce
this. We'll, we'll extend it, you'll get your money, but over a longer period of time, but you
got to help me out in the short range. They're gonna they're gonna have to do it because
they have no alternative. what's the alternative? They're not going to foreclose. They don't
want to foreclose and they can foreclose. When | say can foreclose is right, right now, I'd
hate to be a bank trying to foreclose on a loan with loan was in good standing, and I'm

calling in on some kind of a technicality.

08:08

So at this time during the moratorium on foreclosures is now the time to negotiate, for

example, six months extension beyond the end of the loan interest only no principal.

08:18

Sure. Sure, | would negotiate it and then say, let's, let's talk again, do it for six months. And
we'll talk again in six months when I'm when the markets change. But meanwhile, this
way, let's do it for six months. They will they have no alternative really. Right. Right? It's, it's
like there's nothing, there's nothing that they can do. Realistically, that, and they don't
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

disconnected from the economy. Maybe everyone's just front running the Fed saying the

feds gonna fix it all. What are your thoughts?

01:26

Well, | think it's | think it'll it'll play itself out, | really do think it seems to the fear, the
uncertainty seems to have diminished quite a bit and | think will even diminish even more.
As time goes on. You'll get back to some type of a, maybe a new normal, but | don't | don't
see much, much change over the over the longer long run at all. | think at that point,

you're hanging there, it’s going to be fine. I'm very optimistic.

01:59

I've been on calls with a number of lenders. The underwriting rules seem to change
dramatically as almost no money available for new construction at the moment, or if

there is it's very expensive. There seems to be money available for distressed assets.
Although the distressed assets haven't really appeared in large numbers, yet, that's
probably still a few months away. And one of the things that I'm hearing from the lenders
is because there's so much uncertainty, they are asking for a lot in reserves, you know, 1218

months of interest reserves on top of

02:35

getting Okay, you can negotiate with them. | don't care what they’re asking for that point,

you don't have to give it to them.

02:46

They're gonna be happy to happy to work out the loans if you can, if you plead hardship,
and you can't do it, they're not they're not about to call in any loans. So | think you could |
think without a question, you can play hardball with the banks and they'll go along with it.
| can understand that they may not want to, they may not want to give you more money
on it. But when they're asking for reserves, forget it. The loan to value is still there. That
didn't change. Only their their their feeling at that point that maybe they want a little

more protection, they're not entitled to it.

03:23
JO

JO

moment. Now, there's a developer who has been trying to buy the property under terms
that they don't find acceptable. And they're concerned that the developer might be in bed
with the lender to try and steal the property. In some kind of distressed circumstance. If
they don't get a proper extension on the loan. Her parents are in a weak spot financially,
and they wouldn't qualify for a refinance. Now, the current moratorium, just like we talked
about, a little while ago, the moratorium on foreclosures would protect them for a period
of time, but that's only a temporary solution until the middle of July. How can they get to
the bottom of it and make sure the bank is acting in a manner that forthright and how

would you suggest they negotiate with the bank on the terms of the extension?

23:52

Very simple, don't pay the mortgage. Don't pay interesting with me, yeah, tell don’t pay.
What are they gonna do? You put it back at them.

24:09

As you say, under the circumstances, | can't do this all. You got to renegotiate the loan
with the bank. Because they're not paying for you do what you want. You want to
foreclose foreclose, but | need help. Now, if you take a forceful stand, the bank will give
you hope. If you go with your hat in your hand, you're not going to get anything. And the
easiest way to get their attention is stop paying. Stop paying understand foreclosure,
which is a remedy is a two year process. And they don't want to foreclose. Before they
decide that they're going to foreclose, they got to go through eight different levels in the
bank. They don't want to foreclosure they want to show that a loan, which is at least as a
current loan, or they can keep on the book without being printed. undersized, it can be
criticized by trying to cold call it adlone. They cannot be criticized by making an extension.
So the first thing you have to do is get their attention. How do you get their attention?
Stop paying. Stop paying and say, Look, you indicated you wonder you got to be helpful,
be helpful. Until you are helpful | back on a pay. Works. Interesting, okay. Now it works.
But it’s, it's it’s it's basically the old says way Republicans, well | can't fight the bank. I'm a
borrower | have no, | can't fight the bank, the bank's got to go do all kinds of terrible
things if | don't, if | don't listen to them or do what they want and they forget, it’s not
going to happen. This year, you Won't you say the banks are not business people they are
London's only want to get their money back. If they're you want to get their money back,
the easiest way to get their money back and keep it is to work with you. foreclosure is not
the answer for them. And it's a long road before they would foreclose. So as far as the
moratorium is concerned, the moratorium could last longer than the six months or the

three months. But you got all got all the pluses, all of the leverage is in favor of the
jo

JO

JO

JO

borrower. This was the same thing we talked with earlier on the perfect time.

26:29

Now what about if a loan has haven't seen the terms of this loan? But what if this loan has
terms like a confession of judgment embedded in it or something like that? Does that
that's

26:39

not gonna happen at this point? They wouldn't. | haven't seen a loan with a confession of
judgment, but they can take that confession and shove it to under these circumstances.
No court in this atmosphere, this now is going to permit a party to lose their property ona
technicality. Not happening. Okay. Not so it's it's it's a it's a win win. As far as a booth
borrower is concerned, you're going to get help. The question is how much help and what
what you asked for, but they will work with you. As long as you're willing to work with them
onaonda realistic basis. But | wouldn't give them more collateral, | wouldn't give them

anything. In addition, they ought to be happy that you get to have a current loan.

27:33

So would you be pushing for an extension of the existing loan or under the existing terms?

Or would you be looking for a loan modification?

27:38

I'm not saying you got to extend it. | wouldn't say we look forward is what | want to extend
the loan on a reasonable basis. We'll see what they come up with. We will tell you we work
out a deal. I'm a big believer, you get their attention. It's hard for me to suggest a lawyer
to say the best thing to do is is start a fight. But in this instance, you the fight is already
you didn't start it. circumstances beyond your control mean created a situation where
you're there’s a hardship that's not you're doing and well the courts and the governments
are ready to recognize that hardship. They're not going to let somebody be heard on the
on the technic on the on the fact to do with a situation came up that they couldn't
couldn't control. Not gonna happen. Okay, let's also put this one to bed because this is an
easy one. Okay, how many of you say to the bank, they say, hey, you stop paying the
bank? And they say, Well, what are you doing what? Take your best shot, you want to work

out? | work out a deal. I'll be reasonable. But you'll be reasonable. Well, reasonable. | want
Olles
George+Ross+May+2020

qe Thu, 9/910:05AM @ 53:59
SUMMARY KEYWORDS

loan, bank, borrower, property, months, damages, george, foreclosure, fire department, pay,

foreclose, deal, negotiate, point, situation, lender, permit, people, lawyer, reasonable

SPEAKERS

Robert

© Robert 00:00

Hey syndication mastery club. It's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

O :
A 00:06
George. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Okay, cuz | can hear you fine. I'm sorry. Got a little
delayed you got to work is going outside? No problem. No problem. Okay, let's get started.
O :
A 00:20

Okay well welcome everyone welcome to our monthly mastermind with George Ross.
George is retired now, and | aspire to retire about the same age that you were tired
George. So George, of course is best known for his role as executive vice president in the
Trump Organization having worked for Donald for 47 years, taught at the law school at
NYU for close to 20 years, author of two best selling books on real estate and negotiation.
And we're just thrilled to have you here again with us this month. George, good, glad to be
there. For George, we're still discovering what this economy is all about. It seems to be
changing day by day, the statistics I'm hearing, on the one hand, that the economy shrunk
42% in the month of April. On the other hand, the market seems to be rebounding and is

close to its February highs. | don’t know if it's disconnected from the market or or
JO

JO

where you're going to work when he's 60 years old. Working doing what you is ideal at a
reasonable salary. You can buy expertise, which is available because of what's going on in
the world today. A lot of these people have dropped out of the jobs because the the the
real estate or the the projects have dropped or phased down, somebody figures | can do it
cheaper, cheaper, somehow with myself or bring in, I'll take on more of a load, but I'm
firing some executive people, because they don't fit into the plan anymore. Wow, you got
it. There are people you can do it, you can get good, some very good people to solve your
problem with the experience. And what you do you give them a some type of an incentive.
If they can cut your expenses by X percent, or whatever it is, you go there because they're
going to do you're going to give them a bonus. That's great. Well, you can get you can get
them at a reasonable place at what | say is we got a reasonable at a number that you
can live with. Because you have the advantage of a very big pool of personnel at this

time. Yeah, very cool. And you can utilize

ould

to piggyback on that. Do you feel like this time in this environment is the wrong time to be

growing and and adding more developments versus just keeping what we've got and

39:31

No, no. You should read your Jordan bburago as far as I'm sure you go into the wrong
direction, not at the time to be any more developments and doing what you're doing.
Because other people are nervous they're not doing it. So you can make a better deal
now. Then you could you could make before so if the business was you have or your we
are going into and | don't know what was the specialty is is this is ready residential or what
have you, the time to invest in real estate now is great. | don't know that you could have a
much better time. Why? Because everybody's nervous. Yeah, that's the time that the best
deal can be made. Now, I'm not saying to, basically to invest a ranch on realist on deals,
but | certainly would not be hesitant. But | think the first thing you have to do is put your
own house in order. And we'll put your own house in order that would the business should
not be run primarily by you and your husband, you should have some executives in there
that can help you and that you can trust or they can they got a good resume, and they

can fit into your business. And they are there. Well, you have to do is go look for it and get
it. Get some personnel company at this point, go and put up with it, this is what | need,
and let them go out and find somebody, you'd be surprised how many resumes you get
from people who are looking for this. reason | can say that is that there has been been in
my brain, the practice of law, so many changes. Alright, so | can have the can so because

of the cut down in the number of people. I've had lawyers asked me that boy just put them
JO

JO

JO

be be forceful, you got all the edges. | mean, there’s a moratorium and everything is going
on. You know, where they're going to go? a foreclosure generally. Alright, it does we try if
you start, if a company the bank started or foreclosure, first of all, there were all kinds of
delays before they could start a foreclosure. By the time the foreclosure be effective,
you're down somewhere between around two years to two years at that point before
something absolutely terrible happens and you're going to lose the property. Two years is
a long time. And they don't want to be there. They will be they'll do everything they can to
not not be in that situation. But you have to be satisfied. Yeah, | could take a firm stand
with a bank, which is not typical borrower. The borrower usually says is this what the bank
wants, | have to do it. This is a situation, | don't care if this is what the bank wants, | don't
have to do it. And the bank will have to do ultimately what the borrower wants to do
along assuming it's reasonable. So if you say I'm not going to make any payments for six
months, that’s not reasonable. Would you say at that what | can only pay half right? | just
carry the rest on this. So I'm going to do so will accrue the interest on what will make
something out to Jehovah or almost whole, but you got to work with me the banks will do
that. Now that's that’s very good advice. That's very good. | can't | can't be really can’t be
forceful enough. On this situation, boy, but I'm telling you that if | had a piece of property,
and | had | was gonna renegotiate negotiate with my bank, | love to do it now. Because
I've got all the edges to get there was a kid who was saying it's a public interest, and
they're not good. They don't want to get the reputation of having nuts and they can't.
They can't do imagine is just too much of what goes on and they go to try to foreclose
alone before drugs as a result of the Coronavirus and had has it created the quarter.
Forget it. Good. It's good. Don't play for the borrower is this what can play a firm hand?

This is not business as usual. All right,

14:49

fantastic. Well, let's go to some of the member questions. Hey, Dan, you're on the line.

14:56

lam Can you hear me? Yes, | can hear you George. My friend ever does everything you

know this, this too shall pass.

15:05

| agree with you there for sure. | unfortunately have a question for you that is not related
to the Coronavirus, but it does have to do with banks and governments. Right? Okay, so

this is going to be a little long stay with me, but I'm gonna do my best. So we've been
JO

you to put up additional security. That's not reasonable. I'm not doing it. | want to increase
the interest rate with a penalty 2% or whatever it is. No, | don’t want it. That's not being
reasonable. reasonable. You drop the interest rate. You got it’s a perfect negotiating
posture situation for a borrower because of what's going on. It couldn't be better, because
it's not voluntary. Okay, who's next? Okay, next. We've got Matt. Okay. Good evening,
George. Hi, Matt. How are you? Not too bad. Not too bad. Got a question here for you, it's
a little bit long. But here we go. We're negotiating a purchase of a property as a part of
the land assembly that currently houses a restaurant and bar. The first seller wanted us to
provide all kinds of guarantees and funding for the business continuity for the restaurant
as part of the purchase, then he offered for us to buy the restaurant out of the lease for a
lump sum. Now, it seems the restaurant is once out of lease and give back to the seller is
trying to create an artificial sense of urgency to get a deal done at a time when the
market dynamics resource and retail space is changing. We're not prepared to purchase
the property today, but remain interested in the first in line to purchase it when the when
we get entitled, prices too high based on the raw land value, we can make it worth part of
the overall project. How would you approach negotiating with the seller so as to keep
them engaged and not lose the property altogether. We don't want to pay too much. But
we would like to have the property as part of the overall development as it is a corner lot
of creates a lot of value, and still build a project even if we don't get it. But how do we
keep you engaged? engaged, he's engaged automatically. You have to keep them
engaged, he's already there. So basically, go back to him and say, Look, hey, I'm the only
customer you got, you work out a deal with me, you can save that you can make a good
deal. If you don't want to work a deal with me, you don't have anybody else. You know, it's
not he, again, they have no negotiating position. So far, the biggest thing is that he has no
mortgage on the property, the only 12 years. And he's already think of the possibility of
developing themselves. Now again, to get it deployed to develop yourself in this, he’s got
he’s got so many problems to try to develop it yourself on in this environment, which is
which is very difficult to do. And the Russian guy, right, it doesn't have a track record. And
basically, he doesn't have a strong position. Now it’s not the straight up, it’s not the time
to get a high value for your property. Because there's too much too much uncertainty of
what's going to go on with what's going on. It’s It's you again, you're dealing you deal you
got a better hand, you're a potential buyer. Yep. So it's just making wait negotiate, make
wait negotiate with the board, or at that point, you can say, hey, to me, give me an option.
Now I'll give you a few dollars for the option. And wrong attorneys who want because, but

that's more than more than you got if you don't do anything.

32:34

So give me an option to buy or whatever it is, it is something that works for you. But

understand that you've got again, you've got to you got the negotiating position. We're
JO

JO

JO

So in | love that advice. And I've gotten that advice from one other party, and | brought it
to my attorney's attention. And this is where | really am not the expert and I'm gonna lean
on you is my attorney informed me that there's about a 0% chance that | could actually

get damages because

18:19

| don't care about it. Okay, | get the damages. threat is was was what they're got what
what's the what, what's going to work, the fire department is not going to want to get
they're liable to be threatened. They have a lawsuit against them for X number of million
dollars for illegally holding, holding up a permit, that's not going to look good in the
newspapers or anything else. The publicity is bad, and the fire department will back off,
whether you're not going to get the money or don't plan on getting the money goes or
spending the money. But it’s enough, you've got to put pressure on the fire department the
dough back off his back off a clerical error, and then they have caused you damage by by
what they've done. And the you're entitled to get compensated for the damage or at least
the threat of the compensation, not for them to back off because the the possibility that
they may lose something they don't want to go against as against just backing off and
saying okay, you get we get the permit, we'll go back to Ground Zero where we will be for

good, good position, you can push this push rod on as your witness one.

19:29

So my attorney and for me and | don't know. And I'm going to trust you over him because
| haven't worked with him in the past. But he told me that the government is not liable for

financial damages unless they

19:40

ask again, at this point, forget whether or not the government is liable for the damages
this case will never go to trial. Never the fire department and the global they'll back off
because they don't want threat of possibly losing plus the publicity that’s involved of
having revoked an existing permit to that The hazard of a potential builder to public the
public that it will never get to trial. It's not a question, what are you going to collect are
not going to happen. But in the papers in the finnur complaint, that complaint should
Reek with what how would what the fire department or what did was wrong. And this and
the malicious will be really the malice or malfeasance? It should should absolutely rink of
potential liability, the liability is not there, you're not going to collect on the liability. But

nevertheless, the threat is enough that they're going to back off, trust me. They're going to
JO

JO

JO

So if you're having that conversation, how would you conduct it?

03:26

Let's say they will be happy to have music. So as a borrower, they don't want bad loans.
Now you give you were willing to stay current? As long as I'm willing to stay current, that's
fine. In the event that a loan goes in the event that the loan goes into default, we'll talk
but meanwhile later the way it is, and they will. They will. It's not a question, there's a
bank, the bank's gonna have to pull in, pull it a little bit at this point. They're not they're
not going to control the situation that you can't, they don't want to foreclose, they can
foreclose. And the banks are not it’s not the banks or the courts are not in their corner, by
any means. They're in the corners of the borrowers. So the borrower is good time for a
borrower to take off right to dig their heels in, and not to destroy the relationship with the
bank. But certainly the bank does not, though, doesn't have the right to do more. If you
tell them they're not going to do it that what are they going to they're going to do
nothing. And loan digit long is a loan to value is very good. They shouldn't be taking
advantage of the situation. Why? Why are they taking advantage of the situation what
happened? desire, the real estate didn't change. It's just not the atmosphere or the

nervousness of the banks. So why?

04:47

Well, the value the intrinsic value of the property hasn't changed, but its value is pegged

on multiples of net income and we

04:54

look at multiples nificant multiple, | don't care what is pegged on real estate you don't do
it. If you unless the loan loan is in real dire trouble, which it's not, the bank is not entitled to
refinance or, or put more pressure, | don't care what they say, this is not a voluntary
situation, and they're not going to do anything. So as long as they have a borrower that
says, Yeah, I'm ready, I'm willing to live up to the terms of my loan, but | have, you have to
give me help. They're gonna give you help. If you put your portion, if you let them, they're
gonna say, Well, look, you got to protect me, you don't have to protect the bank. They're
fine. They're out there. Okay, | can understand your concern. But that's bankers, not
borrowers. Now, | can understand this point, if you went in for a brand new loan, or you
had to pay a premium in order to do it, because finding their financing new construction.
And there's not necessarily a market or with no market for the new construction. There's a

risk factor, but there's not a risk on existing loans. Agreed. Agreed. So
JO

JO

JO

JO

number of dollars, just subject Sue to whatever, later, whatever additional strike damages
or charges we'll have, when we get certain certain information, you're gonna have to get

be limited by that amount. Okay, | didn’t know. Yeah. So how much are you suing for?

51:01

| think the damages are going to be somewhere between 1,000,002 million to 5 million

51:09

to 5 million in damages in three and a half million in punitive damages for breach of
financial responsibility. That doesn’t mean you got to win it. But he’s looking at 5 million
instead of a million and a half. All guys attention, guys attention. Because you do have a
breach of fiduciary capacity. And in addition, you will now have something else which |
don't know if you want to use. But you have now that this has been his course of conduct
in other properties, where they breach their financial, it's not only you, but this is a course

of conduct that they have they using money that doesn't belong to them.

51:54

What do | use that or not? That's up to you. But meanwhile, how long have we been

talking and you still have ensued?

52:04

Yeah, it's been going on, | mean, close to eight months. But the case is getting stronger
with it. Not the case being stronger. That this point you got to the first thing you have to
do is you got to get him say set up to this is what they're facing, that may be enough for
you to win it in the instance that they see what they're facing. And they say, wait a minute,
this point, | didn't anticipate it. I'm going to get it. I'm on the hook for maybe $5 million. So
I'll come in, I'll come forward, I'll be clean. And I'll give you the property or whatever. The
pressure, you got to put the pressure on the pressures on by read by lawsuits. If you got a
good lawsuit. You got somebody had taken money that doesn't belong to them. Wow. So
my recommendation for you and your lawyer is Stop fooling around and Sue. That advice
will will change course then. Okay. | can't believe you waited eight months to do
something. That's, that’s your that's your privilege. That's what it was. And I'm not saying
the advice was bad. It's just that that's not the way that you're going to get a result in a

timely fashion. Okay, | think what drew, aren't we
JO

JO

53:26

thank you very much, George. Thanks, everyone, for joining, and we'll catch you next
month.

53:31

Great. Okay. Good night. All right. Good night. Thank you, George. Thank you.

Robert 53:42
There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

jo

Not set it back loan committee do it once you knock on your watch? Once you have to
understand what happens if you stop paying alone? How long do you think is going to be
for somebody from the bank to call up and say why aren't you paying the loan? Or they
send you a notice? We're going to foreclose and everything else you sent a notice take a
foreclosure, I'm not going to do it, I'm ready to do something reasonable. If you're ready to
do something reasonable, and you send that back to the bank, but not with a check, how
long do you think is going to be before somebody talks to you intelligently? not wrong. You
just have to hang in there. And you go wouldn't you go in the courts are going to read it,
they're not going to take it to foreclosure. They know the courts are not in their favor.
You're going there you go before a judge a judge. | was willing to do this. But now they
want me to double the security. They want me to do all of this. So they want to make
deposition better. They want to take advantage of the catastrophe that doesn't sit well
with the courts. doesn't look good in the papers. The publicity is terrible. negotiate a

negotiators dream to have this type of a situation.

49:09

Because they have no they have no no viable alternative. Okay, do we have anybody

else's design who wants to pay make payments to the bank or not?

49:22

So why don't you update us on your ongoing saga with the litigation with your wayward

property manager.

49:30

The order case got put stones that we did have a list of the damages, | still need to do the
calculations for it. But the positioning of the cases is much stronger now than a couple
months ago. | actually found out that they are withholding rents from another person
who's on this call. Who you know they, as a manager found out that I'm friends with this
person and they assume that he's one of my investors, so we start withholding rents from
them. accusing me of all these things, and | have an email of that. So it’s not there. They
basically think they have the upper hand because we haven't sued them yet. We're just
still gathering all the evidence and we're going to, we're going to hit them hard, like, like
Georgia recommended. Go, what's holding you back? Right now it's just doing the
calculation for all of the damages was there's a lot | mean, it's like four years worth of
information, always at this point, you can always readjust the damages, depending upon

the circumstances at the time. Oh, you can now show the lawyer at that point can put in X
