premise for when they've overprinted is when inflation shows up. The problem and where | disagree with her is that is
that inflation can show up even when prices don't rise. This was the argument Peter Schiff was trying to make to Jim
Rickards. And again, | love Peter. But | think Peter was having a hard time getting his point across just as Jim was
having a hard time getting their point across. And of course, I'm sitting there and it’s easy to be an armchair
quarterback. If | was on a hot seat with both of them, | don’t know that | would have kept my composure and been
able to get my two cents out. But here's the short of it. If you run a business, and Stephanie Kelton clearly has never
run a business, then you realize that you're spending a lot of time buying software and inventing processes and
creating efficiencies if you watched the movie The founder, with Ray Kroc and the way that the McDonald brothers
were working on fine tuning the operations of the original McDonald's restaurant, he had everything dialed down to
you know, the shortest distance from the fryer to the salt dispenser, whatever you know, | mean, in the whole point
was they were innovating efficiencies, it should have driven costs down. But when the government or the Fed is
printing money to suck up all those productivity gains, it doesn't show up on the price, but all the labor all the
innovation, all the IP all the investment that should have yielded a return to the owner is stolen from them. And the
benefit of the lower prices and increased productivity is stolen from the marketplace and you can't see it. That's why
john Maynard Keynes said that inflation is a way that the government can steal from the people in a way that not
one man in a million can diagnose. Okay, so the point is now they have print because they weren't aware that they
were creating this problem it it baffled them, that their printing was killing job growth, but you can't the whole point
of growing your business is lowering your cost so you can create more profits so you can hire more people to pass on
to go out in the market. and compete with your now better priced product or new improved service or all those
innovations. All of that has been stolen from the marketplace. And so what we get is nominal growth. And that's why
| wrote the article about nominal confusion. If you haven't read that, go back and read it. | think it was the last
newsletter, maybe the one before. But, but when you understand that, then you can see that that the stimulus is fine
for stimulating the stock market and maybe stimulating lower interest rates and maybe stimulating housing prices
and asset prices. But it isn't doing any good in terms of actually stimulating the real economy where we make things
and employ people. And that just showed up big time in the employment Miss. And now in the inflation mess, they've
overshot. And they think, you know, I've only overshot and it's transitory. But it's not, because they don't realize how
much they've already inflated and how much they've stolen from the economy. So now, how do you turn that into an
investment thesis? Well, you know, | think you have to say that even though the numbers are looking good, you can
make the argument the numbers are looking good. If you read my stuff, | have still been a believer that his people
are struggling under this hidden stealing of their wealth, they're going to gravitate towards more affordable markets,
more affordable property types. They're going to gravitate towards lower tax environments, and businesses are going
to gravitate towards places where there's less regulation, because if they can't, if they can't mitigate the inflation,
they're going to have to mitigate expense with lower energy costs, lower labor costs, lower land costs, lower rent cost,
lower taxes, lower regulatory environment. And they're they're basically just struggling to keep their head above
water as the Fed continues to pour more and more money and drown out their productivity efforts. And at some
point, the Fed drives them completely offshore. And so you have to be cognizant, | think, in your investment thesis.
When you're looking at the markets that you're you're picking industries that are less likely to be offshored. Kenny
McElroy taught us coming out of 2008, he recognized this. And he saw that energy was geographically length that
those jobs were going to be where the energy was, because that's where you had to pull it out. So metals, mining, |
mean, mining, agriculture, energy development, those are geographic, we looked at that same premise. And that's
why we latched on to distribution. That was the difference, even though bahkan was an energy play, we felt like,
energies were more volatile than distribution. And so we looked at Memphis and said, well, Memphis is a huge
distribution hub, as is Atlanta, as is Dallas. And coming out of the 2008 crisis, those were the three markets we
focused on, they were all homeruns. And that was our basic premise. And so that's just how | know that these types
of analysis of looking at the news for the clues and then going and trying to figure out how to how to build an
investment thesis around it, it works. It works in the real world. And, you know, we started out with just hypotheses
and putting stuff out there when the clues in the new segment began in the original investor mentoring club back in
2009. But everything we put out there that we hypothesize turned out to be true. And then over time, | got more and
more confident in my analysis and my willingness to go out on a limb and make predictions. And those of you that
have been reading my stuff for the last, you know, few years have seen that and a lot of the things that I've been

talking about, you're watching happening right now, whether it's precious metals, whether it’s inflation, whether it’s
| would be interested in reading that sounds like something | would enjoy doing, but I've never done it.

5335

Mike, Mike Pyne actually offered to help me go through something and kind of helped me work through that. So a
good strategic CPA that Mike's doing that will even help you model it. We don't have to be that.

JO

© Russ 53:48

Yeah, just make sure you give him a shout, because free PR. Yeah. Okay. And you were waving your hand a little bit
there.

33200

Jo

Oh, yeah. | just wanted to go back to Derek's original point was, when you're in a conversation with somebody, how
do you kind of do that, it also goes back to part of one of the benefits, the bigger benefits I've had, or one of the
bigger benefits I've had from, from doing the newsletters to really kind of take these bigger ideas and kind of distill
them down and make and then because it firms up the argument in your own head. So when you're, if you're unable
to kind of put those put up, put all of what we just said into words, it’s you can make it a lot more specific and bullet
points in your own mind when you're in conversations with people. So not only can you do that, it's going to benefit
you know the few people or you know, the however many people you have on your list, it'll benefit but it will also
benefit yourself. And as far as like talking with people who specifically invest in stocks versus real estate, | mean, this
is obvious stuff and I'm very, a big proponent of of real estate after looking at both arguments and really it comes
down to kind of explaining it to them how they understand it. Because, you know, while what Russ is saying is great,
it's like, if you don't present it properly, it can come off as confrontational, which can be good. But it also, you know,
but it just depends on the person, you just, you just have to feel it. So if you're trying to relate to somebody, one thing
that | would say is, like, even like, | would say something like there are, there are really about five different ways that
real estate can make you money. But if you just look at one, and you're just talking about just the appreciation, and
you're not including, then usually give them a solid example, say, like, if you buy a house, or let's say you buy a house
for $100,000. And let's just say it goes up, you know, it goes up 25%, over time to 125,000, you have that exact same
money in the stock market $100,000 goes up to 125,000. Like that, they both they both have gained 25%. But in real
estate, you're really only talking about the downpayment that you've put in, so you enough, in effect, you've made
100% on your money, not 25%. So something something simple. So like, you know now because you dress it up and
say it however you want, but something that's relatable, that’s very easy to just like eye opening for them. And then
you could ask them a question like, how long do you think it's going to take you to double your money in in the real
estate market? Or sorry? How long? How long do you think it takes you to double your, your, your money in the stock
market? It takes a long time. | mean, you know, we can go back to, you know, rule 72 or whatever. But the point is, you
have to like drive things home to people sometimes in a way that they can understand. And writing newsletters
helps.

© Russ 56:37

Yeah. Well, there's risk adjusted return. And so people often don't understand the risk that they're taking. The
paradigm that people have is they want to denominate wealth in dollars, and they want to collect in dollars. But if
you said hey, if you won the lottery today, and you got a, you know, $100 million, and you put it in the bank, and it
just sat there, has it changed your life? Does it give you a better house to live in? Does it give you better food d? Does

it give a better education, better health care for your family? Has it changed your life in any way, shape or form? No,
 

you feel great. But it hasn't done anything. It doesn't do anything until you actually use it. And so it’s the same thing
is true with your stock market, right until you use it. So at some point, how are you going to use it? Well, I'm going to
retire on. Okay, well, then, | think Jeremy's point or somebodies point is that, then you're going to be eating the
goose. So you're just going to save up a big pile of money and hope it's there. But then you have to deal with the
volatility, and all the rest of that stuff. So but yes, | agree that the most important thing, and obviously | spent a lot of
time creating content and learning how to say things. And you have to pivot off what people understand. So | would
say go back and read that presentation or watch that presentation that | did for peak prosperity because | was
taking a very fundamental view. But | was going after the stock market without being condescending. | just was
shaking people up about risks that they didn't understand. And | was well received. So hopefully that'll help you.
Okay, so we are just about at the top. | probably have time for one more question if anybody has one, or comment.

Jarrid Cavanaugh 58:28

Okay, guys just need to learn how to break it down, like Robert Kiyosaki does teach us through fifth grader. | don't
know how that guy does that.

Russ 58:38

Yeah, well, he works really hard at it. Who works really hard at it? But you know, his basic thing is, you know, if it
doesn't put money in your pocket, it's not an asset. And stocks aren't an asset anymore than cash is an asset unless
that you're getting a share of the profit. If you get interest. Yes. If you get dividends, yes. But right now, these things,
you know, you're not getting a yield on anything. And that's because the Fed has driven interest rates down to the
ground. And that's why you have low cap rates in real estate, which is why you have high equity. But if you don't grab
that equity and put it into something real well, you can, yeah, you have the apartment building, but what's real in the
apartment building isn't the equity. That's not what's real, what's real is the income. That's what's real. So if the fact
that the equity went up, because the cap rate went down, that's interesting, on a piece of paper, but at the end of
the day, your income is the same and | think you know, you can make the argument that way. Your income is exactly
the same. You know, if | have a property that | buy at a five cap, and | have, you know, X amount of equity, and then
all sudden the cap rate drops to two and a half of my equity doubles, or even more great, but my income is exactly
the same. The asset hasn't changed. All that changed. was the the air in the jump house and the air can turn around
on you, the rent is a lot more durable, a lot more predictable, a lot more reliable. And if you do your valuations based
on owning things that are real instead of, you know, speculative things that are based on a bunch of air, then then
you have a better chance of building a resilient and | use that word a lot in the peak prosperity world because that's
their word. But you'll have a chance to build a resilient portfolio. So you You are not going to compete in with with
with a resilient portfolio. with people who are riding a wild roller coaster ride that are having the thrill of their life,
what you have to do is let them know that if they stay on this ride, there's a good chance they are going to throw up.
And they're going to lose those gains. And maybe at a time when they need them the most. Because that's typically
the way it happened. So I'm not saying don't ride the ride. But either get off the ride from time to time and take a
break, or, you know, take some profits out of that casino and move them over into something stable. So you can ask
people, what are you doing for the income producing part of your portfolio? Because that's going to be an area you
can win on? What are you doing for, you know, to mitigate your counterparty risk. That's something you can win on.
What what are you doing to reduce your tax liability? That's something you can win on? How are you handling
privacy and asset protection. That's something you can win on, there's a lot of things you can win on. But in terms of
raw speculation, you're not going to win easy to Ed's point, you can win. Because you can say what if | could show
you how with a very conservative structure 25% down very modest 2% fed target inflation, although Real Estate's
been doing much, you know, five times better than that. And just do very conservative cash flow. | could show you a
20% internal rate of return on your on your money. Because | can do that all day long. And | think | do that on that
video. Pretty sure | do. It's not hard four to one, leverage at two is eight, you pick up another couple points on
amortization, you might pick up another four or five points on cash flow, and then you add in the tax breaks and
entertaining investments in those areas? Or should we be focusing on major areas that meet the more traditional
models of very diversified economies? You know, | mean, kind of us Texas, for example, is just one example. But, and |
wonder if maybe I'm just getting sucked down that rabbit hole, because it's comfortable to me, because I'm close to
it. And maybe that doesn't necessarily mean what we should be looking at for

Russ 15:31

this, just give me a couple of higher level stuff. And since we have a group, I'll toss it to the group in very, very wants
to comment they can, you know, that's the thing is everything in investing, we're talking real estate investing in
particular. But all investing is about supply and demand and capacity to pay. And so | always break capacity to pay
out, although it's implied in a traditional economic model inside of demand. But But the issue is, is that, you know,
you can have a lot of demand in terms of want to, but if they don't have a bowl, it doesn't matter, right? You know, |
use the analogy, if you're out there, you know, dying of thirst in the Mojave Desert, and there isn't a bottle of water to
buy, you would pay any price, it doesn’t matter. Or if there's 100 bottles of water to buy and you're dying of thirst, but
you have no money, it doesn’t matter. Right. So you have to have, you have to have both demand with capacity to
pay. So with that said, you know, when you look at going into a what | would call an emerging market, a tertiary
market, the reason it's tertiary is because there's nothing major going on there. And you have to ask yourself, okay,
then, you know, what's the driver? And if the driver is retirees, which is what you're suspecting, then the question is, is
that sustainable? Is there going to be enough demand? And then what are you what what wave Are you trying to
ride? Right? | use North Dakota as an example in the Balkan broke. And, you know, nobody wanted to live in North
Dakota, nobody lived in North Dakota, and all sudden the Balkan happened. And also there was this giant shortage
of housing and everybody, your real estate prices were spiking based on supply and demand with capacity to pay
because these people now had high paying energy jobs. And everybody in the real estate space was oh, my gosh,
let's go to the back. And let's go to the bucket. Robert. And | looked at it we said, okay, what was there before?
Nothing? And what's there Now, one thing? And what's the problem of shortage of housing? Is that temporary? Or is
it permanent? So we called up a friend of ours that was in the oil industry, or is in the oil industry. And we said, Hey, |
understand that, you know, there's all of this energy developing going in there. And it's two phases. It’s go in and
build the wells and all the infrastructure. And that's a lot of work and a lot of money. And then at some point that's
done. And then the wells are just pumping, and you're processing the oil, what's the fall off, like how many jobs go
away, when you get over that infrastructure build up, we saw the same thing in Las Vegas, when they built city
center, it created 1000s and 1000s of construction jobs. But once it was built, those jobs went away. They were
replaced, or supposedly replaced with the the jobs of the people operating. But those those numbers of jobs didn't
necessarily line up. So if you wrote your whole investment thesis and based it on the volume of jobs that existed
during the ramp up period, and all of a sudden those jobs go away in the maintenance period, well, then you may
have a shift in that supply and demand dynamic. That was number one. Number two is what is the capacity of the
marketplace to expand supply? Is there developable land, if developers all rushed in there to meet this is there the
potential they'll over swing? Well, | don't care if I'm a developer, I'm going to go in and build I'm going to get in and
get out. And whatever happens five years from now, that's your problem, not mine, right? But if I'm a buy and hold
investor, and I'm going to go in there and buy that takeout inventory for the next 20 2010 or 20 years, | want to know,
pretty darn well, what's the viability of that market? 10 or 20 years down the road? That's why | wanted to know, how
long will these wells last? How much energy? How many jobs did does it take to continue to process the energy? And
so we looked at that, and we looked at the ability of the market to expand supply and that if anything happened in
the energy industry, it was a one trick pony. And based on all of that we passed. And if you go back and study the
history of the BOC, and you'll find out that was a really good call. Could we have made a little bit of money in the
short term? Yes. But as long term investors in markets, niches, demographics, we didn't see it there and it ended up
being a good call. So we were tracking the news to get the big story. Then we called boots on the ground teams to
kind of get the real story from insiders who would understand And then we just used our common sense and thought
about it and decided not to. And that's, that's how you use the new news. So in tertiary markets that all sudden
experience a boom, you really have to get your mind around. Where's that coming from. And you, you can get some
of that in the mainstream news. But how many mainstream publications are going to be talking about what's going
_)oO

JO

younger demographics. But then like we have parks in your contract right now in Columbus. And our number one
thing that we see as a risk factor right now is the demographics and you know, how that will look in 10 years. So
that's just kind of my take on it. It really depends on your asset class, though, if you're going in developing land for
new single family homes, you know, you know, 55 and over neighborhood. All right, well, that’s a whole different
demographic than trailer parks, right?

25:18

| think Russ summed it up really good. In the end, were basically in a nutshell, the, you have to know a lot more about
the tertiary market. And then the smaller the market, the more important it's going to be for you to really, really know
the market, | invest in a small tertiary market. But | live there. And | feel like I've got a pretty good handle on the
market. And a reason that | believe that's going to be a growth market for the next period of time. But even still, it’s
not a huge fun, I’m not throwing a lot into the market at once, because not a huge market. And you run into that
problem. The smaller the deal, the harder the harder it is to get this syndication to number, you know, so | think just
really knowing that market, if you live there, then you got a shot. If you're looking up on news and trying to get a feel
for the market, that you don't live those smaller markets going to be really hard, | will feel like,

Russ 26:12

yeah, that's where your boots on the ground team really matters a lot too, because when you have a good boots on
the ground team, then they're tracking all those things, and they will feed you information. But again, | think Kelly
makes a good point here in the chat, if you didn't see it, he says 90 plus percent of investors, and that's probably a
statistic he pulled out of his rear end, but it’s okay. Because he's basically saying, you know, the majority of people
aren't going to invest in a market under 100,000 population, and it reduces the investor pool. In other words,
sophisticated investors understand that if you're out there and a little tiny market, you don't have as much liquidity,
you don't have it, which is basically what he talks about his exit exit strategies. And he’s coming from a place of real
world experience, because he says, | found that to be true in trying to do a project in West Texas. So Kelly, | don't
know if you want to add any additional color to that. Or if you just want to let that lay.

27:11

No, | just had one more thought with that is like in in a multifamily project. In a population of 30,000 people, two
major employers go out of business and your project sucked. You're dead, and there's no exit strategy. So that’s why
a lot of investors | found that and I, | did pull that out of my rear ran because it’s mostly what I, as | talk to people,
they the response | get and and it's almost completely not interested. Yeah, scenario. But then you had a good point,
Russ, where if you're familiar with the market, and you see the opportunity, and you can see something, and it's

gonna work, you have to weigh that out. And then also consider your exit strategy.

Russ 28:03

Yeah, and be prepared to make the case. Right, you can turn that you can turn it around, you can say yes, this is a
little tiny market nobody's ever heard of. But because of that, there's so little competition. And here's this big
opportunity that we see, here's why we see it. And here's all the facts, here's all the data, here's all the research that
we've done. And here's why we're the right people to pull this off. Because we've got the team, we've got the
experience, we've got the focus, we've got the insight, right, so you can turn it into a positive, but you got to do your
homework, you know, if it’s because hey, this is the market | just happened to drive through on vacation, and it
looked cheap. To me, that's probably not enough information for a sophisticated investor. And you shouldn't be
O
O)

°
O)

Yeah, | appreciate it aside, you just answered actually, the first one pretty thoroughly, | think. So | had a question
What kind of being new to the group from the macro economic standpoint, what everybody prefers to follow.
Regarding macroeconomic information, | think we also nailed that fact. And so | was doing is making some notes
and that stuff here that | had a second question. It’s not | don't know that it's, | don’t know if it’s mainstream news, or
maybe just more news, where I'm at and northward Kelly's that, but, um, you know, we're seeing pre COVID, we were
seeing quite a bit of migration to areas that are 100 miles east and west of us, it’s basically, you know, mountain
communities, Black Hills of South Dakota, kind of what maybe you would have retirement communities, when you
dig into the kind of economics of those areas, it seems that it's a lot of low income earning folks, you know, some of
them are college towns, but then it jumps to what's obvious in portfolio money. So | think it’s maybe that's a sign of
baby boomers retiring into those areas, because this has been going on for five or six years, it seems to be

accelerating.

Russ 12:46

So let me stop you right there real quick. Why are you asking the question? Are you thinking that there's an
opportunity out there, you're trying to understand the the demographic, or you're trying to understand the impact on

the market they're leaving, |

12:58

guess, is the new person to the group, you know, following your teachings for a couple years, really push paying
attention to, you know, significant mshs have diversified job markets, etc. their economies more diversified, this would
be much more niche based. And | just wondered if anybody else in the group was paying it? Pig giving any attention
to these more? | don't even know if you call them tertiary market, the certainly more rural areas that are drawing that

retirement community or perhaps is somebody coming in trying to get started,

Russ 13:30

I'm gonna go back to the same question, Jay, this is important, because | can tell you, these are all rabbit trails. And
you can spend a lot of time wandering down these rabbit trails, and you always have to check yourself because your
time is your most precious commodity, your time and your focus. And you have to ask yourself, why? Why do | care
about this? What if | know the answer? What's that going to do for me? Am | looking to invest in those areas?
Because | see rising demand and | want to catch a wave. am i watching people leave an area that I’m interested in
like a secondary or primary market adjacent to a tertiary market, I'm afraid that’s going to create a downtrend. And |
don't want to invest into a sinking ship is that I'm trying to understand what motivates people to move from point A
to point B, so | can look for similar circumstances down the road, in markets that I’m interested in and catch a wave. |
mean, always be cognizant of why you're interesting, because this is, | mean, if you're like me, I'm just nerdy. And I'm
super interested in all this stuff. And | just study it to study it right? The climb is worth it. | don't even care if | get to
the mountaintop | just like the climb. The problem is the climb doesn't pay. It's it’s getting to, you know, an end result
that matters. So I'll swing it back one more time. Why? Why do you Why are you out? Maybe the answer is in your
gut and it hasn't made it to your head yet. And that's okay. Because when you when you have an emotion where you
have a curiosity and you start like having an urge or craving to go do something, you have to ask yourself, where's

this coming from? Do you have an idea

15:00

Yeah, | was just looking at it from the perspective of, you know, being the new guy should we be is are others
And if you have a question, just throw it up in the chat. And I'll be able to see it and so will everybody else but add

churna Bori, since your face just popped up. You were one of the ones that had a question. So why don't you ask your
question first? If you remember it, if you don’t remember it, | can read it.

03:52

JO

Yeah, | mean, so | remember the gist of it was basically I'm trying to figure out, because we all start reading. | mean,
we all read news, and we all kind of get siloed. Because when you're kind of doing research, | mean, just the nature of
information in general is you gravitate towards the things that you want to gravitate towards. And some of it's very
relevant to share it with other people. But to tie it back into kind of where the mainstream is thinking. It's like | used
to be tied in pretty well from my old job. But now | don't have

© Russ 04:21

for those of you that don't know, Ed was a financial advisor with the devil | mean, JP Morgan.

04:26

JO

Yes. That's exactly right. And so one of the benefits of working for Satan was literally to have those reports coming in.
And so it's always like there was always something kind of top of mind. And they kind of kept their their fingers on
the pulse of the market. And it was easy to kind of see what mainstream was thinking. Now that | don’t have that
direct feed, I'm trying to figure out like where people kind of go in general. And so | can at least kind of don't go too

far off into you know, real estate land and not being able to tie it back into what People are thinking whether it's
right or wrong.

© Russ 05:02

Yeah, well, | think there's a couple things. It's a great question and a great problem that we all face, but you
understand it even more, because you know what it’s like to have that level of support. Although you probably have
figured out most of what you got fed was slanted to fit their agenda. And | think there's two sides, we have to look at
it at number one is we have to look at what other people are looking at what are your particular investors seeing and
looking at? So you know, | look at Yahoo Finance, not because | think it's great, it’s but it's the most viewed financial
website, you probably should pay attention to the Wall Street Journal. Maybe some of the major news feeds like
MSNBC, you know, just MSN, yeah. msnbc. You know, it again, you have to know your demographics. And as you get
into conversations with people part of your database, in your in your questioning is asking people, where do they get
their financial news? and ask them, who they're listening to, and then profile them. And then if you find that there is a
very common thread, the people that they listen to, some people may say, Oh, | listen to Jim Cramer, | hang on every
word. He says, | follow Motley Fool, or | will read the Wall Street Journal or | read, you know, some other, you know, |
listened to Jim Rickards, I'm, I'm on a mailing list with Porter Stansberry. | mean, you don't know. So find out what
they're what they're listening to. And it'll give you an idea where they're coming from, without them having to take a
position and look stupid, a lot of people are going to be afraid to look stupid. So that’s number one. Number two is
you have to think about where you what you need to be keeping track of based on your worldview, based on your
product niche based on your markets, and how your deals are structured. If you're highly dependent upon debt, you
need to be paying attention to the bond markets, the health of the credit markets and the trends in interest rates,
right? Because you're going to have to make decisions about debt. If you are involved in a specific geography, like,
for example, when we first got involved in Memphis, the story the economic story in Memphis is FedEx. So | joined a

company that you know, anytime they file a 10 q report or any of the stuff that doesn’t necessarily make mainstream,
 

the migration patterns, whether it's the markets, | mean, for the most part, we've been pretty spot on. Ben just put
something in the chat for those of you that can't see it. And he says if you want a deep dive on inflation, there's a
great report from Lynn Aldean at Lynn Aldean comm forward slash inflation Lin with one end, and Alden with an E.
So that's in the chat. Lynn, as you may know, does content with George gammon and George's a guy that we're
going to be finding ways to spend more time in fact, | just invited | accepted an invitation to speak on a panel with
George, which will be nice because it’s literally the day after | get back from the summit. And so George, well,
nevermind almost leaked something. Anyway, George's George's got an event in Florida coming up. And of course,
we've had a good relationship with George and | listened to stuff | just listened to his podcast. If you're not listening
to George gammon, you probably should. He does a good job breaking a lot of this stuff down into plain English that
folks like us can understand. He started out listening to our show and investing in real estate after he sold his
company. And of course, now he's gone on to be a big name, big personality. Really, really smart guy. So Ben, thank
you for that. Okay, so any questions about out any of that. | know that was a lot. But, again, if you go back and read
the stuff, it’s all laid out. And it's all on our blog closing the news, if you sort our blog by closing the news, you'll see all
these things. Jared, you wave your hand?

Jarrid Cavanaugh 40:14

Yeah, | have a follow up to Kelly's question, because kind of this is what | was thinking. Well, | was talking to a couple
guys last night at an event that | was at, about this exact topic. Right. Good job. And, and so here's my question, then
I'll give you kind of the backstory. My question is, how do |? Or how do we better? What's the best ways or talking
points to kind of relate inflation and what it does to real estate or just real assets in general that produce cash flow,
and then what it does to if all your money's in the stock market, and I'm having trouble making that tie, and because
| was trying to explain, look, if | buy a $200,000 house today, you know, it’s a three bed 1400 square foot home, and
then in a year, | sell it for 300,000. | didn't, it’s not like | sold a five bedroom house, all of a sudden, it didn't change.
It's the same house, right? And so it’s like, the money isn't real. So if you just focus on putting all of your fake money
into assets that produce income, whether that income is special drawing rights from the IMF, or exactly, or whatever,
yeah, but | have, but then they, they're their counter to me is, Well, yeah, but my stocks go up with inflation as well.
And they're not wrong. But when their stocks don’t pay dividends, and the whole bottom

Russ 41:33

falls out, they own air, they own promises, they own promises,

Jarrid Cavanaugh 41:38

I'm just having trouble making that link. And | don't know, good talking points are?

Russ 41:41

Well, well, | mean, you have to establish, and again, it takes time, right? If you're in a casual conversation, that's
different if you're going to have you know, like do some type of a webinar or something. So if you if you're if your
concept is, Hey, I'm going to get into a conversation, | need to say enough to pique their interest. And then I'm going
to get them into a deeper dive, a white paper, a book, a podcast, a video, a webinar, maybe something you do on
your own, or you bring an expert in however you choose to do it, that's different. If you're trying to make the
argument in a singular conversation. In either way, | mean, the the basic premises, this is that you have to
understand where the price comes from. And so when you look at the price of a stock, it's based on a comparative
sample, and you have to explain to people what that means. And | use real estate as an example. But, you know, it
doesn't really matter if there's a million shares outstanding of Apple stock, and | know there's a lot more, and
somebody comes along, and you know, it was selling, you bought your shares at $100, and you're the last person to
buy, then the total market cap of the company is deemed to be $100 million. If if all of a sudden somebody comes
along and pays $120 for that same share of stock, now based on comparative analysis, that companies deemed to
be $120 million market cap. And that's why you see companies market caps go up and down, they're not discounted
based on their income, it isn't even based on their income, it's only based on whatever the last person bought or sold
at. And then that one sampling price is deemed to be the entire value everywhere. Of course, we all know that if you
were to take your your shares, and everybody else were to go take their shares and sell. And typically people sell in
together, because they get some piece of news that tells them this thing isn't isn't going to be in demand going
forward. And that's where you see stock prices drop. And of course, if it’s really, really bad news, then it can drop
precipitously and never come back. Right? And and especially these companies that have no real earnings, or their
price to earnings ratio, is so out of whack that there's no way their stock price has anything to do with their actual
return. So what you say is, yes, your stocks went up on paper. And when you look at your 401k statement or your
stock brokerage statement, you feel rich. But what do you really have you have, you have a piece of paper with
numbers on it. If you go to sell it, then if you sell it when it's high, you can convert it into dollars. But we know the
history of the dollar is the dollars are going down in value. So the dollars aren't anything of real value. And really
neither is the stock. So the the usefulness of the stock is to have a gain in the dollars that you can then turn around
and use to buy something real. And so what you're trying to do is make the argument between things that are fake
or paper or promises counterparty risk that aren't real, versus owning something that is real. And real estate is about
as real as it gets. But you could add to that owning metal gyms, anything. Now the difference with real estate is you
can, it comes with income and tax breaks, so you can go to yield and that income doesn't come from comparative
samplings. It comes from actual absorption. In other words, if there's 10,000 apartments in a given marketplace, and
there's 95% occupancy in that marketplace, then basically, every available apartment is being sold, or rented each
month in a transaction with a real buyer, and, and real demand. Whereas if there’s a million shares of Apple stock
outstanding, and one person sells 100, that’s only a comparative sampling, that's not full absorption, you find out
what the real price is when everybody goes to sell. Okay, so when everybody goes to sell their apartment available
for rent, and they have complete absorption, and that buys, that's real value. Does that make sense? You guys hear
what I'm saying? The income is real value, because you have, you know, 9500 people in that 10,000 unit marketplace
that are actually bidding and paying for that apartment. And it’s absorbed. Whereas if | have, you know, one person
buying 100 shares out of a million, there’s no way those other 900 and, you know, 99 or 999,900,909 100, you know,
whatever it is, right, whatever's left, there's no way that that's worth that same price. And everybody knows it,
everybody just accepts that level of air in their investment, but real estate income producing real estate doesn't have
that level of air in it, especially multifamily or mobile home parks or something like that. A home, a borrower can get
over their skis and pay way more than a home is worth based on the income it would generate, just because they
have the salary and they really want the home, there’s more air and housing prices, then there are in apartment
prices. But any apartments that are sold are basically sold out there based on absorption based on real buyers, real
sellers settling, it isn’t like, you know, | mean, | can't go hold an apartment out there that's empty. And | rent one unit,
and say every other unit therefore is worth that rent. It's not, because if you tried to rent all those other units, and
good luck renting the one that you got for whatever you got it for, right, | mean, you're going to have to drop the
price, the same way the stock market has to drop the price to get to get all the outstanding shares absorbed, you're
going to have to drop the price. Whereas the apartment yield is is is is every month that transaction, say sales, |
bring to market a unit for rent, and somebody buys it by paying me rent. Okay. So once you get that basic concept
figured out, then you understand the difference between what's real and what's not real. They're deceived. And you
can't call them stupid. But the game is to convince you that that numbers on a piece of paper are real wealth, and
they're not. And that's the part that people don’t understand. And so we're not saying don't be in the stock market,
we're saying use your stock market profits are some of your profits and put them into things that are real. And even
like right now with my precious equity series that I'm hopefully going to get done here in the next week or two.
Finally, the idea is Guys, look, if you own a home, it’s there's a good possibility it’s in a bubble right now. And that
equity that you think you have is going to go away. But you can take that equity off the table right now and take it
out of a bubble and put it in something real you can move it into a market where there's no leverage. And that would

be a way to do it. Or you could move it into something like precious metals that isn't in a bubble right now. It's
May 12, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Clues in
the News...

@ Wed, 9/22 3:38PM © 1:03:38

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

market, people, pay, inflation, real estate, money, real, question, based, news, investors, point, understand, buy, attention,

energy, jobs, argument, basic premise, stock market

SPEAKERS

Ben, Russ, Jarrid Cavanaugh

Russ 00:17

Hey, syndication mentoring club, this is Russ and it is our may 2021 edition of Ask the mentors and it's clues in the
news last time, | think | did one of these | got confused what we were talking about. But this time, I'm certain it’s clues
in the news. And we have some good questions and a good turnout, some folks here and maybe even a couple of
new people. And so welcome, everybody. Thanks for being here. guys can all wave and acknowledge and do the
wave and all that stuff. So let's just kind of jump right into it. I've got some things that I'm following right now,
definitely, there's a lot of things happening on the news, I'm sure you've been tracking some of that lots of things that
are being brought to the forefront of anybody who's interested in the economy, anybody who's interested in
investing, anybody who cares about their money their future. So | think that it's a very rich time, to be getting into
conversations and to be having things to say to people who are out there in your world, either on your list or that you
run into in conversations or out there in your networking. And of course, news, the whole clues in the news model is
really designed to cover a couple of things. One is it’s just to help all of you kind of understand and interpret what's
going on and share with each other ideas about how you're using it, whether it’s confusing you, or whether you're
using it effectively. The other thing is, is you use it in two different ways. One way is to get into conversations to share
things to add value. But the other thing is your investment thesis. And if you're out there making strategic decisions
about what you're going to do with your investors, money, what markets what product is what demographics you're
going to serve, where you think interest rates are going to go taxes are going to go, whether the economy is going to
grow employment, or not, whether there's going to be inflation, deflation, | mean, there's a lot of things to think
about. You don't have to be like a financial planner, you don't have to be an economist, but you do have to have kind
of an understanding of which way the wind might blow in the economic storms. And also, you know, the ebbs and
flow of the waves economic wave. So the analogy is to be a ship on an ocean, which is what your portfolio is. And
you've got the waves, you've got the undercurrents, you've got the wind, and the weather, you've got to kind of
navigate all of that. And the more that you can let your constituency paint you make them believe or paint a picture,
that you're somebody that has a plan. And that you're well informed and you're well advised and you're paying
attention, the more inclined they will be to trust your investment Aquaman when it comes to picking investments in
markets to invest in. So that’s kind of why we do this. And so for those of you that are new, that's kind of what this is
about. Once a month we come together, we talk about clues in the news, not a monologue, even though | opened up
with a monologue, it's really, it’s really a chance for you guys to ask questions. And it's just to kind of pivot off each
other. So with that said, we have three questions that were submitted. I'm going to pull up the chat here real quick.
you're up at 20. very conservative, most people think 20% long term gains in any type of an equity portfolio is high
risk. And that would be true on the paper asset side of things. But it's not true in real estate, you can have a very
conservative 20% equity growth rate when you factor in all four components of profit with real estate very
conservatively but that takes a little bit of explaining the have a copy of equity happens | make the argument there
but | make the argument there in in in that video. Okay, so you guys got a little chat going on. | don't see anything in
there. That is a question. So I'm gonna wrap this up. We've been at this for an hour. Gentlemen, thank you very, very

much for being here. Great questions. Great participation. Look forward to doing it again next time. Thanks, guys.
You
Jo

on some Podunk little, you know, rural town, not many. So the next best thing is if there’s local news that you can tap
into, that may have a better story. And that's who you listen to is just going to depend on who's actually covering it
and doing a good job. And that's going to vary from Metro to Metro or from sub market to sub market. The next
thing is, is to tie into professional associations, the local commercial real estate, people in other you know, if there is
a chamber of commerce or whatever the major trade is, if there’s a trade association, try to get on those newsletters,
frequent those websites, try to figure out what the people who actually care about what you care about, are seeing
and talking about, even if they don't care about exactly, or they don't care about what you care about for the same
reason you care about it, they still are caring about it, like | watch oil price.com. But I'm not an oil investor. But | care
about energy, because | feel like energy is a reflection of the dollar. And it’s a major cost input in everything. If
inflation is going to happen, it's going to show up early in, in energy. And so | pay attention for the same reason | pay
attention to gold, of course, gold, | think I'm more inclined to not invest in but use as a savings and financial tool than
| am energy. You see, but but there are people who follow gold for completely different reasons than | do. And
certainly the energy, but the fact is they they follow it. And so you have to find those niche people and the smaller
the market you go into the more esoteric, the information and drivers are, the harder it is going to be to find that
Now the good news is, if there is a real opportunity there, you just happen to see it because of your proximity or your
social network could be something you know, you get this little hotbed of activity that you can be the king in and
make some real money. And then one day you wake up like Robert Helms, and you're the world’s foremost authority
on this little market that nobody was really paying attention to, you know, that's what he’s becoming San Pedro
believes he knows that market better than anybody on Earth. But it didn’t start that way. It took a lot of work for us
to dig out and figure out what made that market tech. And we've kind of made that our, you know, our little market
and, you know, on the investing side of our business. Does that make sense? Yes, thank

22:41

you.

Russ 22:42

Okay, so I'm going to toss it to the rest of the group. What | think the core question was, he’s just curious, or any of
you out there, you know, paying attention to these little tertiary markets, maybe seeing some opportunity, seeing
some movement, Jared, you're waving your hand?

Jarrid Cavanaugh 22:57

Yeah, but | think | pay attention to tertiary and secondary markets more. But that's because I'm a mobile home park
investor. So my demographics a lot different, right. And so | don't get too small, like under 100,000 in a in an area is
going to be really hard for me to make a case to invest in. But that's just there's no elasticity there. But the thing that
so the thing, | would think, if you're planning on holding the investment long term, and | would say, long term being
five to 10 years is there’s the problem with tertiary markets. And then also it'll | think it'll start to affect secondary
markets is the declining birth rate in the US, which is going to probably have a real impact on real estate over the
next 2530 years. So | would just say some of those markets that are, you know, that 100,000 or 90,000, people, they
might have strong good employments and lots of income from retirees, when those retirees start to die off at the end
of the 2020s. You know, that that's like one of the key macro factors that kind of leads me to not be to act on tertiary
markets. That's my biggest for real estate long term, meaning 20 years from today, | think the biggest threat to real
estate or to real estate is, is the USA gonna adopt better net migration practices as a nation? Or what are we gonna
do because if we don't, we have a declining birthrate, rapidly, like really rapidly, so that's going to negatively affect
real estate in the US so so when | think about like, in Atlanta, Georgia, it's gonna take a while before that really

affects Atlanta because it’s a hot city. It’s got tech in there, it’s got movie arts, things like that, right? Those are
_)oO

probably one of the few assets out there that isn't in a bubble right now. So Jared, I've kind of monologue a little bit
can't help myself. Oh, yeah, yeah. Okay. So Ben just put this in. But | made this exact argument, actually to the peak
prosperity because | knew | was talking to people that were paper asset investors. And so in that in that opening
webinar, and he put the link in there, and that one's free, the rest of them cost but the first one is free. | make this

exact case and | go into greater detail. So get your mind around it, it'll help you.

50:05

That's how | was gonna ask that too on because that's the video | was gonna ask. | don't remember what the video
was. But that's, that's the one it was then. Yeah, | want to remember Jared mean, you were talking the other day
about. | had done that meetup, my first bike live meetup, where | let it outside people come in. And we were doing
over retirement planning. And that was basically the whole premise. And | even put a spreadsheet together on like,
you know, how you would traditionally run your like how of how Ed would arraign your your retirement planning how
before he got out of that job. And, and then when you start pulling from that money, you know, you're pulling from a
value that you hope is still there. But even when it's still there, you now have less and less in there that’s working.
Whereas if you have an income, you've replaced your income with income investing, then you can use that income,
but you still have the asset, the assets still growing, it’s still appreciating if it's appreciating, so if inflation there in
appreciation is happening, the one asset class and the other one, you're still getting that benefit, even if it’s a lesser
amount. So | use that premise too. But like rest goes into the comparative market analysis is how housings built in
this video. And one neighbor comes in with the nail, the grandma lives next door and over pays, and then everybody
puts her house on for sale, you're gonna find out what the what the real cap rate is at that point, you know, and | use
that to say, like, if you were to buy Iran house at 6%, you'd have to pay millions of dollars for that rent house to
match Amazon make at the same return that it was based on first because the return isn't what they're producing

isn't connected to the value anymore. So it shows you how much air is in here. But that video was really really good.

Russ 51:54

Yeah, you just it’s a matter of getting people to understand what investing is, which is accumulating the efforts of
other streams of income, not going from cash to asset to cash but but using cash to acquire assets. And an asset is
something according to Kiyosaki, which | agree with that puts money in your pocket. So otherwise, you're you're
basically holding on to air and you're taking counterparty risk. So you know, my my comeback to people who have
stock and bond portfolios and go, that's great. And, you know, obviously, that's been a lot of speculative gains there.
But how do you handle your counterparty risk? Right? People like, what's counterparty risk? Well, the fact that you
don't actually own your stocks belongs to the broker, or that if the bond holder goes broke, bond investors get
nothing. Whereas like, so for example, with real estate, if a tenant goes broke, you evict them and you put a new
tenant in. Or if | own debt on real estate, and somebody defaults, | actually get the property, which then | can sell to
somebody else. And they can take over making the payments, or | can rent it out and they can make the payments. |
have more exit strategies, I'm less exposed to counterparty risk.

Ben 53:11

| just wrote a note down on this. I've not looked into this, but has anybody done any analysis on capital gains offset
with like depreciation? Like if you were to sell the stock and then come into real estate as like a newsletter topic? your

CPA will help you.

Russ 53:29
JO

JO

making investments with other people's money based on a back of the napkin assessment of a tiny market. Because
the main thing is, you can you can goof up a little bit. In a major market, the market can save you if the market is
strong. But when you're in a tiny market, to Kelly’s point, it doesn't have a broad population base, it doesn't have a
broad demand. And it could have a very limited number of drivers like my story about the BOC and and you have to
ask yourself, and of course back then with the Balkan energy was a big, big story. You could make the argument
Yeah, it’s only a one trick pony, but it’s a really strong pony. And we had to make that argument in Memphis, because
Memphis is largely a one trick pony. And whereas unlike the BOK and we decided to go with Memphis, and that
turned out to be a good call, too, because it was a lot more to Memphis than met the eye. But but certainly FedEx is
a big part of it. Okay, all right. So that's good. Let's see, trying to see if there's trying to find how to get back to my
mouse here. Okay, so, Kelly's asking about inflation. So Kelly, you want to ask that question?

29:59

So I'm just wondering I've just been reading a couple articles in the news the last few days about

Russ 30:04

like today's giant, giant, like, you know, Jim Burke has been earning Oh, there's no inflation. There's no inflation and
BOE figures, my big inflation, like, you know, | think Jim is a smart, smart guy. And I've listened to him to beat debate
Peter Schiff on this issue. | understand both their points. But, you know, | don't know, | wouldn't say that he was
wrong. Maybe he’s using a different definition. But he keeps saying it’s not showing up in the CPI. Well, it just did
today.

30:34

Yeah. So um, so my question is, is from your experience, | don’t understand how inflation will, how it will be an

positive or negative impact on our real estate investments. And so if you had some insight on that ad,

Russ 30:50

yeah, | mean, | think it's the story. | had a conversation with our marketing department today. And | said, Hey, | want
to start, you know, putting a little bit more noise out there with respect to inflation. If you read my stuff, I've been
talking about it for quite a while. And, you know, | think | think | mentioned on this in the past, | read a book by
Stephanie Kelton, who is a proponent, she’s an economist proponent of modern monetary theory, modern monetary
theory basically says that a Jared just held up a copy of it, for those of you that missed that. But but but modern
monetary theory, the basic premises is that any a sovereign entity that borrows money in its own currency can then
borrow as much as it wants and never worry about going broke, because it can print as much of the currency it
needs to pay the debt. And so the that's the argument, the debt and deficits don't matter. And you've heard that
argument made for a long, long time. And there are people who think we operate in a sound money environment,
and who believe that the balance, the budget needs to be balanced, and that we need to pay off the debt. But that's
not physically possible. Because we borrow our money into existence, our system is inherently inflationary, | mean, in
other words, in order to survive, it requires inflation. And that's why we wrote equity happens, that was the basic
premise there that this system is going to require equity to happen. So the best thing you can do in an environment
like this is go into debt. You want to get as much debt as you can possibly get your hands on, you want the cheapest,
longest term, best tax deductible debt, you want it, to use it to buy assets that are going to bring you the income and
the tax breaks, in order to pay for it. And when you look around the universe at all the different things you could use
real estate is at the very tippy top of the list. So the the the problem with the modern monetary theory is their basic
JO

| subscribe, you know, you can use a like a TD Ameritrade or fidelity or whoever, as a stock brokers, you should
probably have one, and just subscribe to the various feeds that they have specific to the marketplace as the major
economic drivers in the marketplaces you're invested in. If you're invested in a product niche, and you want to know
what's going on with homebuilders or you want to know what's going on with energy, or you want to know what's
going on with transportation or tech or whatever the major drivers are in the market you're in, you need to be paying
attention to that both at the macro level Main Street News, because your investors are probably going to pay
attention to those things the same way you are. But then you also want to pay attention to the micro news or the
local news Chamber of Commerce, local business, journal, whatever. And then you just start scanning headlines and
paying attention to what you think is relevant, some of the stuff is going to be relevant to you and you're not going to
share it. | have news feeds. And | think Jay asked his question, and I'll cover it in a moment that | pay attention to
that | never quote, very seldom fact, | just did the very first time ever, | think | just quoted Zero Hedge, usually | don't.
Usually what | do is | use them to help me find something and then | go dig it up in a mainstream source like AP
Reuters, Bloomberg, New York Times, because usually | can find in the less controversial sources, the people who are
less likely to, you know, maybe alienate people who really don’t understand what's really going on, they're not ready
to eat steak yet. And I'll go there. But I'll go try to find a mainstream source so | can pivot off of that. So that that’s
kind of the way | look at it again, you got to pay attention to what your people are paying attention to based on
their demographic based on the markets they're in. And the other thing is, is what they’re invested in. If people are
heavily invested in the stock market and you're meeting resistance, then you want to be paying attention to the stock
market, even if you have zero interest in the stock market. Because you want to time strategically an email, a
newsletter or a phone call, when something that is blowing up in their faces, has the propensity to make them
nervous, and maybe you catch him at a moment emotionally where they're ready to abandon ship. If you're not

paying attention, you'll miss that moment. So Did that answer your question?

09:49

Yeah, | mean, it does. | mean, it's, it’s basically just using using like my own thing as a narrative and then just, it’s kind
of just drives home the point to like, pick things that are That people relate to. So even if you have your own, like a
narrative, you can basically support it with mainstream sources. So that's, that's, that's kind of what I'm starting to do
now.

Russ 10:11

And the two sides are paying attention to what they're paying attention to. And then paying attention to what you
need to be paying attention to looking at it through their eyes, and their paradigms, their prejudices, their hopes and
fears. And looking at it from the things you're thinking about, based on your investment, your investment thesis, the
markets, the niches, the financial structures, the economic drivers that matter most of what you're doing. And of
course, the ideal scenario is when news comes out, that is very pro, what you're doing and very anti what they're
doing. You want to quickly draw attention to that. So you do need to be ready to pivot. Because when the news
hands you a gift, you may have to rearrange your schedule to get a piece of content out to strike that nerve while it’s
hot. Okay. All right. Jay Johnson, you're up next. You're brand new. Welcome to the club. And | think this is your first
engagement outside of secrets of successful syndication. So let's give everybody give Jay a big club. Welcome. Hey,
Jay. Hey, there, appreciate it. All right, buddy. So yeah, now we had a lot of great conversations, you know, hanging
out at the bar and whatnot at secrets of successful syndication. So this is kind of like that, but | don't riff as much.
This is me, you know, kind of letting you guys ask questions, but you had to. So I've got them here in front of me, but
it's better if you ask them unless you don't remember what they are. And | can ask them.

Ti37
