JO

jo

JO

is exists in my pocket, I'm not doing I'm not making it worse, I'm not gonna be putting
myself in worse shape, because of the fact that somebody put a moratorium on building.
Ai you can see from your face and the others that are looking at and this is saying, Wow,
this is not something | would I'm ready to take on a bank. Hey, if you can't stand the heat
get out of the kitchen. And very often builders are in the garden, the heat because
somebody's throwing a curveball on municipality or someone putting putting a damper
on it, or said you can't build it. They change the zoning and something happened or the
market changed. And why you thought you could lease something out for $100 a square
foot it turns out, you can only get 50 stand up and you tell them tell the bank or the
lender. Hey, this is the marketplace. You are my partner. Yeah, | told you it's going to get

$100 a foot but it’s not what do you want to do now and you'd be surprised the results.

1:00:00

George, Can | ask one question about that? Sure. Um, do you think that would still apply in
a highly regulated banking industry that we have here in Canada? But they still have that
latitude? Kidding.

1:00:14

| can't believe you asking me to take into a bank as a bank. What are they going to do?
foreclose? know they can't foreclose by the time they foreclose? It could be a year, two
years down the pipe, things could have changed? No. The answer is | don't care bank is a
bank. Now, the fact that they're highly regulated is to your advantage, not to your
disadvantage, because now they have to explain to a higher authority what happened.
And they don't like to explain it, | got a bad loan. | don't like to do at this point, because
the basis Oh, you got a bad loan that affects your assets and your reserves. Therefore, |
want you to put up cash because you don't have the reserves anymore. They don't like
that. The bank doesn't like it. So they'll do everything they can not to make a loan look

bad. So they take less money or whatever. They don't want to show it as delinquent.

1:01:11

It was terrific, George, thank you so much. Okay, good. | guess we'll finish but tonight. Yes,
yes. Very, very impactful evening. Thank you so much. Oh, Coco. Okay. See you next week.

Next month. Thank you, George. Okay, great night. Good night. All
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

44:38

The difference what we were talking about here was unique, you know is what they're
selling is something they never will use. So if you've got you've got somebody who's got a
four story building but a right to go eight storeys. didn't ever go to build the other four
storeys. Doesn't make the building doesn't make sense to do it so you say instead of
building the other four storeys Give me the right to build the other floors. stories and
Okay, now what the four stories are worth on a square foot basis. So now, I'm giving you
maybe 200, and some odd $1,000 for something you will never use. So there's an

attraction there. Because they're not going to

45:18

build on top of a building higher. So you can build on top of the foundation of the fourth
storey. So you're eventually gonna have to knock all the buildings down and then give

them that you just match the square footage from the air rights down to the the other

45:32

floors. But it could just make it doesn't make sense to build a new eight storey building on
on that site, too. It's not it's probably a total joy residential. Why would you do that?
Doesn't make sense. And then would you guys go higher than No, yeah, why would you go
as high as you can go. But it's limited to the what you can buy, because the size of the
plaque guard covers the size of the air rights under the zoning. They would say, all right,
you got to either a building with with 60,000 square feet, you got the right to put another
40,000 feet on it. And I'm giving you you have the right to sell the 40,000 feet to
somebody that wants to build on an adjoining owner. But you get really cash for

something you never want to build. Very attractive. Yeah, no,

46:25

we don't have air rights in Ottawa. At least we don't have that concept that's very
common in New York. Correct. And now if you were, if we simplify it to just the case of a

straight land assembly, yeah, where you're trying to buy an assemble land the same.

46:44

You buying the land, don't say this is straight, it doesn't have to be you, whatever it is,

whatever the price is, for the land use the same thing, | will give you so much for the land
JO

JO

JO

JO

Okay. That's the philosophy. Because if mortgage rates go down, you refinance. If they go
up, you're not liable. Right. So that’s my, my philosophy and to put as little money as you
can, in the project,

21:43

is our thought is put in maybe pay the deposit won't, you know, pay the deposit and then

seek investors to the rest?

21:49

Well, that's it, whatever, whatever it is, it's you. And the answer is you have to have some
some skin in the game. That's right. That's basically what the investors have. It doesn't
mean the too much. Now, one of the things that you could consider in for attracting
investors is some kind of the deferred compensation. There's ways that investors get paid
before you get paid. Okay, yeah, they get some minor payment before you get paid
before you see any money. So say if the property throws up some money they get if they

get the first crack at it, then you do that’s, you know, looks nice. Right? Sounds good.

22:26

Right? Right. Then you're holding your your hold? Yes. So your money is more at a little bit

higher risks, and their money is so

22:33

the naked Look at that. That doesn't mean you don't get paid. It just mean you may not
get paid first. Right. So but it’s a good selling point, because Oh, look, the the the the
party that brought me in the syndicator, or the body had brought me into the investment.
They don't see their return. The same way | see my return day to day come afterwards.
Right? Would you normally charge a developer fee then ahead of whatever it is, but good,
good paid. But finally, say whatever incentive you can give to your investor, it just makes it
a little more more attractive. Right? Because you can say to him, Look, | am so sure this
group, this property is going to give you the return that that | suspect is I'm giving you
precedent, you are you you get paid before | get paid. Right. Yeah, like that. brings good
with an investor say not only do that either there was some money day then with the
future, too. That doesn't mean you lose it. You don't forfeit, it exceeds just if you get into

the later point in time, Pisces. Okay, that's great. Thanks, George. You're welcome. It's
JO

JO

41:27

Yeah. Okay, that's a very good question. And we've done it. We've done it in land
development. Those who bought it will not be say, Donald, we bought a piece of property,
which was way overpriced for what it was in a very strategic block work. However, it was
there, the entire area, or the entire block was was low density buildings, where you had the
right to take if you controlled the size of those low density buildings by buying the air
rights, which you could do, you could take the air rights and put them onto your, your
other site, and therefore you could go higher on and the first piece of property you bought
by restricting what was in the neighborhood. All right now. So what we did was the
following, we went to the first party that was there and said, We'll buy your property at X
dollars per square foot of what we can build. Now, and it's a good price. But he said, Look,
we're going to develop property, all the properties on the block. And if the right the price,
we pay you per square foot is less than the price we pay, anybody else will will raise your
price to what we pay the highest person. So now Is it okay? | don't have to worry about
that, I'm going to be gypped I'm going to get as much as anybody else. So they'd be
happy, so you can sign them up. But definitely, you can take a right you can buy them
outright, or you can option them or any way that you want. And then we continued
around on the entire block and went to building see instead we just want the air rights on
building a building B and here's what we paid him would you do the same thing on the
understanding that if we when we do what we pay somebody else more, we'll come back
and we'll talk to you, we'll pay you the same thing. And it worked when around the entire
block. And the problem he came up with the last one on the block was a church and they
didn't want to sell but was needed so we paid them high price and then you had to go
back and tell all of the other owners that all the other sellers you're getting more money
because we had to pay more money for the air rights in the church. And it was fine in a
wonder as a result that site now instead of being restricted to what you could build ended

up as being a site for a 90 storey building

44°11

that's a great answer because one of the common common worries with land assemblies
is they don't want to get paid less than their neighbors Yeah, and they feel stupid. Yeah, |
don't want to That's right. | don't want to be ripped off so | like that what's what's stopping
the first the second person from saying look | want more money now and then the third
person does the same thing and the fourth person is just such a good price. I'm not gonna
do that.
JO

JO

JO

33:09

What are the conditions in a partnership agreement? whereby the LP can remove the GP

for competence or what have you?

33:18

That doesn't exist? Stay out of it. at all, there's not dairy in the situate, anytime that a GP
general partner has done something that's violative of the law. You always have a look,
they always have a lawsuit, but to put it into agreement, forget it never. It's like starting a
marriage where Oh, they're already telling you they're suing for divorce. What are you
getting married for? You know, it's wrong, it’s wrong, wrong way to start out. And
interestingly enough, when you first start out with these ranges, as far as you, you can
make any type of affair D any type of a deal. Why? Because there's nothing on the table.
There's no money on the table, there’s nothing. It’s just a it's an idea of what we're what
we're doing going forward. However, at a later point in time, if you haven't protected
yourself in the documents, and all of a sudden you had they don't like what's going on now
you have a lawsuit, but you created yourself in the documents. So every document you
have in a partnership, there should be a divorce proceeding. It should be a way to buy
somebody out to get you out. It works but when do you do it? And then when you first
draft the papers because there's nothing on the table. So if if if the partnership agreement
requires somebody to some some limited partner to put up capital, and they don’t put up
capital, okay, what's the penalty? Now they could do partnership interest could be diluted,
like somebody else could buy it at a premium But there’s some penalties involved because
they didn’t back truly as an investor or a partner. So there’s a penalty involved. But that's
not a problem if you put it in first time around, because they, nobody expects to default.
We say you're going to buy out or | could supplant, you're good to go good to get
somebody to borrow your shady gum up all kinds of remedies. But it's important to put it
in the agreement so that you don't have a disgruntled partner. It's continues on and you

can't get the funds necessary from the disgruntled partner.

35:34

So this question that that's being asked is not hypothetical at all. We got a project up in
the Pacific Northwest, it’s about a block from a very well known Marina an hour north of
Seattle, Washington, the property's literally a block from the water. And the landowner
has said that they're willing, they were planning to go build it themselves, it would be 120
unit condo towers, 66 storey condo tower, mixed use with structured parking. And then

they said they would be willing to partner with us, they would contribute the land for their
JO

JO

JO

share of the lane contribution as part of the equity. Yeah, so if you value the land, let's say
roughly a 2.8 million out of a total $15 million equity raise, they would get approximately
20% of the partnership.

36:26
Okay. Okay.

36:29

Then he came back and said, well, I've got a couple of buddies that want to fund the rest.
So they will give you the full 15 million. So then the question in my mind is, well, now what
is? How do we protect our equity share? How do we negotiate our equity share the
project? And how do we maintain control of the project, if this guy's bringing all the money
and the land?

36:53

This is making money doesn't give you a control of the project. expertise does go up, who's
going to build it, not the money, not the guy with the first thing about building. So at that
point, you have the control, they have said fine, okay, who puts up the money, they're
entitled to return on their money. But again, they can't dictate the terms of what's going
on, they can, if they want to let them buy the property, if they bought it themselves and
developing themselves, they could do that, and don't need you except to the extent that
you control it. But you must maintain some degree of control and they have to learn to
trust you, you can't have the two different voices, running a private property and say he
will do high price low price would do it now we'll wait to utter confusion doesn't work.
Somebody's got to be the boys with a voice and step up and say this is it. And this is what
I'm doing. And the party putting up the money or what have you may have some remedy
that's discussed initially, if they don't like what's being done. They may have some type of
remedy. But selling the property is not the answer selling their interest is not the answer
you their interest is got to be controlled, so that the party has who knows what's going on
has the control, but not necessarily has not put up the money that required to make the
project work. What can be done? It’s easy, don't you got to do it on the way in. So people
say well, wait a minute, if I'm going to let you into my project, | will | want to, I'm going to
have control. Now as soon as you say you're not gonna let him into the project, they want
the project. Because you said you're not gonna let him in psychologically say, well, you're
not gonna let him in keeping it for himself, it must be good. Now, that may or may not be

true, but psychologically, it's very effective. If you tell them, you need the money, the
JO

JO

JO

JO

11:51

My crystal ball says that they will be back in the office just because of what | see right

now. People are coming to companies requiring them.

tik

That's it. That's it's good. If you're right, how much vacant spaces they were in San
Francisco? Yeah, a few million. Hey, well, okay. Doesn't that tell you something? That's the
thing six years from now? No, no, no, six years from now? What are you gonna do? It's
really up, up up good is going away? What are you planning on building? How long? It's
one of his problems that occurs anytime you have a building site is, you know what it is?
Now you have to figure out what's it going to be when | finished construction. And that’s
the risk. That's the gamble. My gut reaction is if | were gambling, I'd rather gamble with
residential because people will need a place to live. But | don't know that don't always
need a place to work. That's my thing. | really appreciate that. Oh, that's that's my feeling
don't look wrong. It's in a particular area in San Francisco. It's a good area, there may be a
desire for smaller space. | don't know. But | would make it if | were you. | would definitely
check and see how much schools what is available in the office market now in San
Francisco, big space, small space? And what have you find out for brokers or general area
and get a good home field as to whether or not there's going to be a shortage of office
space or too much office space? And then move accordingly. Thank you, George. Good

work.

1s:27

One of the things that you touched on that | think is worth maybe drilling a little deeper
on, is is this question of the time risk? Because if the entitlement process in San Francisco,
is that long? Does it even make sense? Given that Stephanie is relatively new with us, for
her to be working in that environment as against another environment? That's going to be

quicker to market?

13:50

That's a good question. | would suggest you go to another environment quicker donkey. |
would work on something a little more secure and easy to easy to manage. Then
something like this is the first shot shot out of the box. Yeah, that's good feedback. Yeah.

So yeah, something that doesn't take as long to see the results probably more desirable.
JO

JO

JO

JO

16:56

Well, going back to your point about the plaintiff removing us from the lawsuit, if they
refuse to do that, who cares? Okay, okay, you're not gonna pay? What are you worried
about?

17:07

No, there's potentially, there’s potentially a liability to SAP because when you go to secure
financing on any new project, one of the disclosures is, Are you the subject of any

litigation?

17:20

That's it, they say? Yes, at this point, and he explained on litigation that you named as a
party, but you don't own the property? So what is your insurance company involved? Well,
my insurance company's gonna pay, I'm sure | can't believe that the owner of the property
is uninsured. Or whoever created is uninsured. It’s supposed to have some liability
insurance and not going to get paid. And the liability insurance, you make sure that that
insurance company will cover both cover you and also the other player, the other
defendants. Because there's only one party that’s going to pay it, it's not going to be you.
But | wouldn't worry about it, | wouldn't soend the money on it. Okay, | would do or what |
would, | would have my lawyer, | would file papers indicating that you're not the
defendant, you don't own a property. And then you could delete the lawyer, the plaintiff's
lawyer, if he continues to keep you in the lawsuit, you're going to hold them liable for all
the legal fees leave the that you have to pay in order to protect yourself from an
unwarranted lawsuit. Maybe they say, Okay, | rather let you off the hook because you
don't blow or maybe you won't, so why worry about? Okay. Great. Thank you so much.
You're welcome. That's a great question. Okay. Yeah. But are you going to be faced with
with fraudulent lawsuits up above where we further put everybody? They put everybody
on it as a as a party defended that they can? That doesn't mean anybody got liability, but

it looks looks bad. For so while | wouldn't worry about it.

19:06

Absolutely. | mean, it happened to me in in the tech industry, where we were the subject of
a patent infringement lawsuit, where the plaintiff in this case was Intel. And they threw up,
you know, 12 inch high stack of patents at us and said, You infringe on these patents, and

we looked them over and said, No, we don't. And | said, That's nice. See you in court. And it
JO

Thank you, Victor. And thank you, George, for Hi there in this video. Hi, George. | work.
Then based in San Francisco, and | found a property that it’s currently a restaurant 10,000
square feet. And according to the zoning, we can build for more stories there. That could
potentially be residential and potentially be office for a total of about 30,000 square feet.
It's an excellent location two blocks from public transportation, and more public
transportation coming to that area within the city. The numbers, this is my very first
development. And the numbers so far, from what | know, suggests that the best financial
plan will be building an office. But we're not super sure about the demand there. But the
alternative could also be residential, residential would get approved within about a year
and a half two to four entitlements. An office would take at least four years. What would
you recommend me doing as my very first development | would love to obviously partner
up potentially with someone that has experience. My partner right now she's a architect
for over 20 years in city Commissioner as well in San Francisco so she has a ton of
contacts in the city. But | would love to see what my blind spots are and what you would

recommend.

09:45

Okay, | hear you but you say it’s an existing two story building and you think you've
expanded to make it six storeys or four storeys, six total, so you can add four stories to the
building. Yeah, additional four stories. Yes. | don’t know what it was it should be residential
or office. Correct, right. or combination of both? | could hear you coming from if | if it were
me, | would think office is more risky than residential. First of all, office, how big are the
offices? Are you going to build them to suit? Who is somebody he's 6000 feet? Can you do
it? They need 3000 feet? Can you do it? So how would you subdivide the space or build it
out? You don't have that problem. When you go, you're doing residential, you say, well, I've
got my two bedrooms, three bedrooms, or whatever it is. It's easy, residential is easy. You
can do studios, and people will live where you build. People will not necessarily work in an
office that they don't like, or they don't, or they don't like to dimensions. So it becomes
more speculative. That's not to say that you are doing but before you decide to break into
offices, you but | would suggest that you have tenants occupy the space. And they may or
may not be there. Because there's a tremendous effect, which is going on as a result of
COVID. offices, regular people learned | can have some of my people work from home.
How many? | don't know. But if it How many do | need? Well, meanwhile, | had no, nobody.
My office was was empty. Now I'm going to bring back How many do | bring back? Or do |
need more office space is more to me was more of a risk, Much more risk in residential at
this time? Because even six years from now, and this would be six years from now, what is

my What is my What is your crystal ball say?
JO

_)O

JO

It's interesting, because I've heard you give this same line of argument multiple times, and

I'm hearing it again, with a fresh set of ears. That's what I'm consistent. Yes, you are

56:13

consistent. Nothing like telling the bank, | can't pay the mortgage, or I'm not paying your
mortgage. And | have a good reason. You're not that doesn't make you a bad borrower is
the face to make forcing the bank to make to analyze what they thought was a good
loan. And for some reason it's not. And to make them your partner, you're not going to like
it, they're going to balk, they're going to threaten you and ultimately, but when when
smoke clears, they will have no alternative. They don't want to foreclose they don't want
your property, they don't know what to do with it. Otherwise, how do | get my money?
Back round bad situation? If you say, Well, this is the best | can do. What are you gonna
do? You're gonna be forced to live with a situation and seeing if a property is underwater
or what have you. And now | have to live with it for a while. And here you have a situation
which is not of your doing. You got a moratorium which was never, which was never
anticipated. And it's put a damper on your plans. But who's your partner your bank? They
say hey, Bob, no, we got a problem. Here's what we're gonna do. And you'll have to have
to live with it is whether they like it or not, they don’t want to, and you'll balk. And they'll
say all kinds of well, you defaulting on your papers and it's your it's not what's in your
mortgage and where you're going to try all kinds of things. Forget it. So what I'm doing it's
when you take the hard stand and they believe you that you will accomplish things. But
that's contrary because most of the developers are terrified. Most borrowers are terrified
at the banks to go do something to take my property to take my wife whatever it is
they're going to do. We're going to do fourscore for us, we've got to get my guarantee
what all the remedies that they put in their papers, you figured now all of a sudden here it

is wrong doesn't happen that way.

56:71

You're just particular instance just on a land basis, there's probably four and a half million
dollars worth of profit. So there's there's there's plenty of upside. Once we get through the
entitlement, a whitewash we can sit and do nothing. right where you are now. We just

need to we need to find the additional interest reserve is really what

58:44

I'm not doing it. Don't find anything. At this point, right? I'm just I'm not doing it. Because |
got this | got following | got the problem. And you know, my partner. So while the problem
JO

JO

doing and what's happening in the area that you're planning on investing in. And that
varies by, by city, by state by location by interiors. It’s it's there’s too many variables. And
you have to decide what you want to do and where you want to do it and see if, if that's
appropriate, or you think it's appropriate. And that'll that'll clarify on time. But right now, it
said, you It’s too early to figure anything out. Too much going on. Literally, if you're who
you're talking Well, | want to build houses. Meanwhile, the price of lumber, lumber, lumber
is going through the roof and the price of other things are going to roof. Is it a good time? |
don't know people ready to buy? | don't know. So it's it's just it’s so it's too It's not clarified
is it's too fuzzy. And you'll be pure guesswork and my feeling. What | would suggest is, wait
a while | think clearer things will clear. And you'll be able to see the | think there will be no
question that most of the municipalities and cities are going to require money, how do
they get it? Well, they're going to get it if they sponsor development and get more taxes.
That's what they're going to have to do. But what does that mean? Well, it probably
makes them land some land available, or some incentives available to bring business or
housing or what into their community. The good news is no incentives are interesting.

where they are.

03:35

It's very interesting that you mentioned that because we're actually dealing with a specific
a specific situation. That surfaced literally yesterday, where the state of Idaho in this case,
enacted some new regulations, specifically to try and put a cap on municipal property
taxes, such that the impact of the cities is that if they add, let's say one unit of residential
property, they don't get to add one unit of property taxes, it's less than one. So the more
they scale, the more it cost them. Yeah. And the result of that was this particular city, just a
suburb of Boise said, Wait a minute, tap the brakes. We put a moratorium on development
till we can figure this out. And now there's these you know, 1000s of units of residential
property in the pipeline that's come to a screeching halt be for exactly the reason you
talked about cities need to grow to raise money, but now the formula that's been put in

place by the state prevents them from doing that.

04:42

That's a problem. That's a problem with what the state does is going to overrule what the
city's doing is a power play in the this happening karate, certainly throughout the United
States. And you just have to wait and see if it will solve itself in present time. | can't tell you
when or how but it’s it's almost universal everywhere. Nobody really noticed they all have
big deficits and say, What do we do now? Right. And we have people moving out or

they're moving into other areas, business going in and out. And it’s just, it’s the too many
jo

JO

JO

good for a good philosophy. It worked. Well, they liked that

23,52

notion in that waterfall. You know, there's there's a lot of options. You can, for example,
repay your investor capital first. And then you could say, well, then maybe there's a bonus
to the developer. Or maybe there's a pref pref returned to the investor that comes next,
and then maybe a developer fee, and then maybe a residual split. Yeah. What what's,
what's been the structure without making it too complicated, that you found has been the
most effective,

24:24

the most recompense on the sophistication of the investor, and what they're looking for?
Well, if in fact, the developer is getting more than they might ordinarily get as an ordinary
return, then a sophisticated investor is not going to be happy with that. However it is and
if what happens is, you say, well, to the investor, you're going to get a return and addition
some giving you a priority. I'm going to get my return book that | would ordinarily get
because I'm coming after you. So I'm taking more of a risk. Therefore, since I'm taking
more of a risk, | am entitled to a higher percentage or a higher return. It's a is no magic
wand that you can wave here, maybe. But it depends on the sophistication of the investor.
But there's logic to proposal. If I'm guaranteeing you a certain return ahead of me, |
should get paid for that guarantee in some way, by a better return a higher return or
something else or a deferred compensation, why not? Because | am taking more of the
risk. Now this happens, you know it very often we have a tranches, we have three different
layers of debt of investors. So the one that's got the most security gets a lower rate of
return, but they you know, they're going to get paid the one that comes in extra up the list
until the one that's got the most Briscoe may not get paid. It’s the highest return if it's
there. So the risk is measured by the return. Whether returned is measured by the risk is
really probably a better way of putting it. But depends on who your investor is and what
their capacity

26:26

when you were looking at the structure of an investment, and you have the opportunity to
get money from multiple different sources, or you have a single investor who says, | want
to fund the whole project by myself, yeah, you accept the money from the single investor?

Because don't they? Why not? Maybe they have too much control at that point.
JO

JO

26:52

Oh, yeah, you just threw me a curveball. | didn't you You didn’t say they're gonna give a
single investor with control, | would never give an investor control. They're an investor,
they got to be passive. So would you keep them in the LP form, whatever it is, | could, |
don't, I'm not gonna give them control. They hate their investors, if they don't know
anything, or they're not sophisticated real estate people. You can't let the inmates run the
asylum. Does not that's absolutely not okay, how much they put in. The idea is that they
have to trust you that you know what you're doing. And now you're gonna sit quietly. Now,
that doesn't mean that you don't get a rewriter return, but they certainly can't tell you
what to sell and not to sell or remnant. No, because the investor is not the developer. You
don't have the expertise. They're not dating, if you if in fact, they're your partner, make
them your partner, because they're not your partner, then he didn't didn't need the money
is not necessarily what you want is not necessarily what you're going to do. Those if the
right partner partner can have voice in what you say, but they also have the ultimate risk.
But be careful who you who you recall your partner with, they have to add something
other than money to the to the pipe. We know pretty well. Can you go deeper into that?
Well, | deeper into that. Yeah, you make a huge mistake. If you're a developer, you make a
huge mistake. If you take money from somebody and you give them a degree of control.
Because down the pike, their desires don't match necessarily your desires or what's
appropriate. And what do you have you have a dispute, that's the last thing in the world
you need is a dispute. And usually the investor is not sophisticated developer. If they were
they'd be a developer. So | wouldn't, | would very, very reluctantly give them any degree of
control. They have to trust you that you know what you're doing. And if they don't trust
you, they shouldn't be in they won't invest with you. So is the difference between a
partnership and an investor. So if the partnership you have partner is coming in and going
to add money to the till take the same risk that you're taking, yes, they are entitled to
some type of agreement or compensation night but they have no priority over you. They
just sit the same way. Now it may be that you can retain 51% day or 49% fine as long as
you control it, but not 5050 then you don't have control. And you have a stalemate which

is no good.

30:03

With a typical GP LP structure, you often see for example, the general partner will say
20%. And the limited partners would say 80%. Right share of the profits, that doesn't

necessarily translate into 80%. Controlling intro, right?
Ollee

May 2021 - Mastermind with George Ross

gp Thu, 9/912:55PM 9 @ 1:01:38

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

investor, property, building, pay, money, partner, bank, buy, lawsuit, george, land, control, put,

developer, block, foreclose, project, people, city, years

JO

JO

00:08

Hopefully we're Welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with Mr.
George Ross. so thrilled to have you back here again this month and just love the time
that we get to spend together. George, of course, is best known for his role as executive
vice president in the Trump Organization, having taught at the law school at NYU for over
20 years, worked for Goldman and delorenzo for 10 years prior to joining, joining up with
Donald. What else in business for 60 plus years? law firm robot? That's right. Well, thank
you, George. So one of the things that we're seeing right now, | mean, we're obviously at
the tail, hopefully at the tail end of the pandemic, and the end is in sight in some parts of
the world. If we run the retrospective on the pandemic, from at least an economic
standpoint, there's a few lessons maybe one of them might be expect the unexpected, or
perhaps even some of the most pessimistic predictions could possibly come true. That
potentially prices and supplies can be disrupted in the short term. And that may be force
majeure situations can be much more regular than we might have thought in the past.
Now, if we're taking those lessons and planning for the future, what if you were to advise
someone today to incorporate those lessons? What would those be? And how would you
finance things in going forward, so that you've got stole the benefit of all the upsides that

you want and are protected on the downside?

01:45

Well, that’s a good question. But you're never going to be protected, you're never going to
have all the advantage to the upside, because you don't know what it is. And you're not
going to be projected on the downside, because you don't know what it is. It’s just too

undecided. It depends on the particular area and depends on what you're planning on
JO

JO

JO

Die)

opposite is true. Now, now they say well needs me therefore | wish | had some degree of
control. Okay, that sounds dangerous. Yeah, there's weather. For all of Abood people who
are listening. There's a lot that we're talking about here, which is very valuable. In any of
your future dealings relating to any property that's involved. They were talking about the
degree of control and how you handle the degree of control or if you give it up. And
sometimes you may say, Well, I'll give up control, but you got to give me a 50% bonus on
what | put in. There are lots of ways to still, you know, to work are working around if you

know what the problem is, but if you're the developer, you you run you run the show.

39:53

Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Yeah. It's, it's vital. Yeah, it is vital. Yeah. Because | mean,
at the end of the You're on the hook for the for the covenants for the personal guarantee
on the construction loan. Well, you're right, absolutely. So the the bank's not going to want

to lend to someone who's not in control?

40:10

That's correct. And doesn't have the expertise, right? Absolutely. You're going to want to

know what you've already done, why they should loan you the money.

40:23

And you're an investor doesn't fit into that pot. Investor doesn't make you a good
developer and nobody knows how to build or somebody knows how to sell or retail. Not
there's not their investor knows how to put up money. Okay, got anything more? Yes. Let's
go to Michael. Okay, Michael, George, how are you? I'm good. |

40:52

got a question for you. My question is around, development on in, I'm building in the core
of acity and a lot of the development opportunities are hard to come by just because
there's limited supplies. So we have to do land assemblies. And we're sending out a lot of
unsolicited offers. And there's a bit less control with not having a relationship there. | was
just wondering if, if you have any experience? Or if you could share some experience on
how Donald approached this type of negotiation with unsolicited offers back and forth? or

building relationships?
JO

JO

JO

JO

14:20

If we were to get it in the title. Would you still do something like recommend that we do

something like this?

14:27

Oh, yeah. But it's my good feeling is is why do it now. What's the what's the urgency?
Okay, the rookie. As far as municipalities concerned from San Francisco, there will be
more incentives that they will offer to do with do construction or renovation in the short
into the future, then there are now because they will need the money and they'll walk the
development so My my gut reaction is that it would be more advantageous to do it at a
later point in time, maybe six months or a year than it is now. And there's no rush. Why
rushing? | mean, no rush. Thank you. Okay. All right. Awesome. Okay, what's next? Let's go
this up. Victor. Hi, George. Thanks for taking my question. George, my

15:30

question is regarding a second lawsuit from this year, | sold an apartment complex two
years ago, and the LLC that owned the apartment complex was listed in the lawsuit as a
defendant of the lawsuit is for an injury that occurred on the property two months after
we sold it. The new owners maintenance technician was moving a refrigerator, the dolly
broke and the refrigerator landed on him. So we had, you know, it wasn't it wasn't our

fault. That's what every defendant says, right?

16:03

At this point, so you have a lawyer, you put in an answer to him, you no longer own the
property. That's all what's next. So that's it, there's no additional, if they're gonna end of it,
they probably do must be insurance somewhere when insurance companies going to pay.
So when | put a lawsuit, | brought everybody everybody into it that | could. It doesn't
mean | could collect Ebola, or any of what you just do as on a general basis to make sure
you got the right party, one party, you're not the right party who are one party, but you
can put in an answer and deny or deny everything and deny ownership. And you may
even get the plaintiffs to agree not to take out of the lawsuit. But if you don't, so why

you're not going to be liable, because you're not the owner.
JO

jo

jo

JO

30:24

Absolutely got no voice does it does it translate? Right? Because and translate? That is a
horrible thing. To create a partnership with the people that know that there's this do not
control the partnership.

30:41

putting money is not control, they don't know it may be an opportunity to get out or not
to get out. And you don't you don't want them.

30:52

They're not that you got to say, Fine, | do it. And if they're a true investor, they will address
you, they will do it and say, Look, I'm going into this because | trust you, they know what
you're doing. Once they want to get a degree of control, or they seek a degree of control,
that means they don't trust you. And that's the problem. If they don't trust you, you're
going to end up with a lawsuit you're gonna put up with, certainly with with aggravation
that you don't really need. Because when a decision has to be made, it has to be made
you can't fight in the meantime to say this is wait or see. No, can't does it that doesn't

work.

333

Okay, there's a very good business question that was just got raised. Yeah, what degree of
control Do you give to your investor? | would say this very little as as little as necessary,
unless they like to be an equal partner. And they can make an equal contribution, that
they have knowledge of what we're doing a building or business, and then that you can
bring them in and give them some area of decision making but not control. If you give
them control, you're dead. It's their partnership, not yours. Now, you're just an employee?
Yes. Correct. With all the liability? Absolutely. So absolutely. That goes that goes with the
territory. Okay, the lesson to be learned here is, if you if you have parties that come in and
make a financial investment, if that’s what they do, that's all they do. Make a financial
investment at that point. And wait. That doesn't mean you don't give him information and
the OIC even if you don't keep them in touch and tell him what's going on. That's fine. But
they have nothing to say about how it's done, or whether they like it, or they don't like it.
Because they don't have the expertise.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

was a way of essentially pressuring us to stay out of a segment of the market. Yeah. Cool.

That's what they do. Yep. Okay. Let's go. Let's go to Gordon Hamilton.

19:53

Okay. Thanks, Victor. Hi, George. Great to hope you're well, | am fine, guys. Excellent. So
we've always put some of our own money in to all of our projects. And, and the philosophy
that we've had also is to treat other people's money as if, as if it's, you know, more care
than if it's our own. But we're looking for some advice from you as far as what inspires

confidence in potential investors, would it be personal guarantees of the debt? Would

20:28

it be liquidity? Personal guarantees of what that? Let's say we had a decade older the

investors? Yeah, that's Yes. Where did you get that idea from? Well, it just,

20:40

it's just a few thoughts that, you know, maybe have something. Okay. And then the

second one

20:46

is putting | because my dad, they're not entitled to protection from you. Alright, then
you're not true investors, | can you can protect your investment, but you're not going to

underwriting? Right. Right.

20:58

So then it would just become debt. If that’s what debt is. Yeah, yeah. Okay. And so what
about putting in some of your own money? Absolutely. But as little as you have as little as

possible, okay. So that that

21

right there? Is there what my philosophy has always been and it's worked out, is borrow as

much as you can for as long as you can, as long as you have the right to prepay. Okay.
JO

JO

JO

JO

variables at the present time, which eventually will solidify where | don't know. But it will. It
has to, except when we go to war, it can continue with the unknown, not knowing what's
going on. And | see in my guesstimate, is there will be many incentives available by the
states and the local municipalities to attract new business or income. That when it will
take time, but you have to realize once they know how, what how big the hole is what we
have to do to fill it. Again, there’s this there's no timeframe, because it depends on the on
the area and the municipality, how, how they think and how they're going to change and

do things. And it takes a long time to change philosophy when it comes to politics.

06:12

One of the things I'm approached on almost on a weekly basis, people are asking me for
advice, or pitching them an opportunity in what is a community that's shrinking in
population. And, you know, you look at communities that have been well known for that
for decades, like Detroit, that have lost close to half their population over the last several
decades. And then you have other major cities like Chicago that's continuing to lose 10s of
1000s of residency years, consistently, over the last five years. Would you invest in a

shrinking city?

06:47

In a shrinking city? It's too broad a question, what are you investing in? residential
apartments? It depends where, what's the what are they in a good area, whether
desirable, there will always be businesses, and there has to be or require a commitment to
be in a certain area in a large city. But | think that that's, that's going to start shrinking.
Because now you don't need as much space, you get figured out that maybe | can operate
from house or | can take some of my back office space, and | can move it into cheaper
space. So there's a lot of reconfiguration, which is going to take place in the cities. And it's
very hard to figure out where or what? There won't be new construction. | can tell you that

for quite a while.

07:45

Well, yes, that makes that makes sense. That makes sense. Well, that maybe almost takes

us to segue into one of our one of our questions. Why don't we go to Stephanie.

08:01
JO

JO

JO

JO

too many owners. Now, what you can do at this point is it’s that you can put up an offer to
say, | will buy out, or | will here's where | will make an offer to all of the condo owners. Or
for X number of dollars, but I'm not paying it. But I'm making an offer. | tried to put it
together and then you see if you can finance it if they get everybody to agree. But it's

hard to do. And legally, the easiest way to for you to negotiate is not to pay anything.

50:56

So pretty much our attorney sent him a letter saying we're not paying you and you can
sue the story. I'm not paying you nasty letter will follow. So take a loss. Take a loss. Write it
off. Write it out. Yeah, that's it go on to something that's more more productive. Okay, we

got that one saw.

51:26

This last questions. Maybe a follow on to the discussion. We started at the very beginning,
where we have this. We've got some of our projects, just outside Boise, Idaho. And we
have this we're now literally as of yesterday, facing 120 day moratorium on development,
while the city is figuring out what to do. So part of that land was purchased with some
financing. And we were comfortable with the financing amount, when we felt that we had
control over the timeline now that we no longer have control over the timeline. We're not
panicked, but we're saying Hmm, maybe the structure we've got here is not the right
structure. So | guess the question is, would you advise us to take a wait and see attitude?
Or would you advise us to go into a pure equity financing structure right away? Get rid of
the debt?

57725

What why you want to get rid of the debt? That's crazy. Well, just no word of it just saying
now that you want to get rid of bank financing, put in your own money. That is contrary to
every good real estate developers philosophy. The idea is to get as much money as you

can from somebody else. Yes. Don't use your own. No.

52:50

You can get the bank you tell
JO

JO

JO

52:51

the bank what the story is that listen, what are they gonna do not gonna foreclose?
Because they're the same situation? What are they going to do to you nothing? You know,
what is what was going to what are they having? They want you to put in more recording?
I'm not doing it. What are you going to do bank? Nothing? You understand banks, bankers
are not smart business people are real estate people. If they were they wouldn't be
bankers. They would be in the business area. All they want is how do | get my money
back? And one of the ways is, if you tell them, I'm not giving you back unless you Wait,

what do you think they'll know, don’t wait. As long as you have a good reason.

53:41

It's simple as that. But everybody's somehow afraid to bank and they're going to
foreclose, they're going to throw me at the good doors, they're not going to do any of that
for a long period of time, and has to go through different layers of the bank to get the
approvals to do it. And they have to report it to the banking authorities. Oh, by the way,
I'm foreclosing this piece of property. And the bank ATAR says, well, then you've got to put
up some equity or cash, because you know, having alone is sufficient. In one deficient
loan, you can do tricks with a bank. But you got to have courage, you got to understand
that, right? Most of the time, people look to the lenders, borrowers say, oh boy, | can't. My
bank will foreclose to throw me out in the street go shit. Then | got to do it. But you have
to have the courage to take the stand. and say, Look, you're my partner. Let's work this
out together partner. You'll have no choice but to go along with the block. They may say
put up more equity. We want you to guarantee I'm not giving you anything more. It says |
may need more money from you. So you get ready to put it up. | think if you take that
attitude, in a sense, you'd be surprised how successfully you will be, but most most
borrowers Don't. Don't do that. So | can't tell you how many times I've done it and how it's
worked out. But first, they have to believe you. Did you know that you're going to do it.
and easiest way to we had this one will say, don't pay the mortgage. Stop making the
payments, because | don't know. And there's indecision. So therefore I'm waiting and see,
and | want you to be my partner, you wait, awesome, they won't like it. They're going to
complain, they're going to spread and all kinds of things or send you all kinds of nasty
letters. But when push comes to shove, don't wait. Because it takes them going to take
them a few months to make up their mind what they want to do with you. And what can

happen in a few months, things may change completely.

Do?
JO

JO

JO

on it, which was really a square foot basis, depending upon the size of the plot. And
therefore | go around the block and | you do the same thing. So if you have an acre or by
the acre, it’s so much an acre. And if the next guy's got two acres, | buy you a tool dog
twice the price of one acre. Now | have to pay more possibly strategically, because
depending on where the property is located, so somebody may if he’s on a corner, you
may have to pay higher, but Toby you do that. But what does work is not okay doing it as
an option. Where say, Fine, I'll give you a certain amount of money. And | have the right to
buy this property. And then you can go around the block sheet whether it's worthwhile, if
it's not your draft, whatever you whatever you options you want. He lost the option

money, but you're not obligated to end up with owning pieces that are not contiguous.

48:01

Because you watch graphic Boy, you don't want to buy one property, then the next one
does sell and then you got a little piece alongside me. So you end up with just 10 parcels
all over the place instead of one parcel. It's it’s large. It's tricky, but it can be done. Good.
Anything else, Michael? No, that’s great. Thanks, George. You're welcome. Okay, let's go to

see ya. Good evening, George. Thank you for your time. Oh, fine. What can we do for you?

48:42

So this is a follow up on the commercial condo power of Phil from three months ago. Just
to recap, operating costs and $90,000 a year historic gross revenue has been $30,000.
The property has lost $60,000 a year net before debt service. | personally finance the loss.
At this point, we | took your advice. | told the board, | am no longer paying you. | paid off
the debt. So they're moving to power of sale on Tuesday. I'm doing what do you know?

Now the underlying land value is probably one or $2 million. The condo itself has a
negative value. So my goal in the negotiation is to maintain control of the unit and to
convince the other unit holders to do an assembly slosh a development site because the

building's not being properly the site’s not being used properly.

49:41

You remember the there was a story of this boy in Holland. They wanted to put his finger in
the dike to keep pollen from being over, over flooded. | haven't heard that with a kid with
the finger in the dike. Get out of the property, take your loss and go home, you're not
going to control it, because the rest of the owners that this are not of a mind to give
control got too many people with too many different ideas. And everybody thinks

whoever gets involved is trying to steal the property. You got too many bosses or you got
