Junior people, and you just compounds problems. And whatever you think you're going to lose by operating only,
quote unquote, at 80% capacity, you're going to, you're going to more than you know, blow by not, you know, by not
having, but by all the problems you're going to create by not having that excess capacity available to you. So there's
that | thought | had another thing on that, but | don't remember what it was. So I’m going to just keep rocking and
rolling here. So we have a question from john, up in Canada, who's probably still in lockdown, maybe one day, they'll
set the people free. And it's about 1031 tax deferred exchanges, which couldn't be on the chopping block, we'll see.
We're, we're waiting to see what happens. | can't believe that's really going to happen. They just have to throw it out
there. You know, just just a side note, you know, from going through George Ross is training and other people in
negotiation, Chris Voss, one of the things you do is you put a bunch of crap in, in a deal that you're totally willing to
give away in order to get what you really want. And | think that the 1031 tax deferred exchange when it comes to real
estate is often in that category, because it comes up frequently as on the chopping block, and it never ever, ever gets
taken. And you know, maybe this will be the time | don't know. But | think I'm proceeding in life as though the 1031
tax deferred exchange is going to continue to be available to us, even though they like to saber rattle from time to
time. So anyway, john, go ahead with your question for Mike. So my question is is, so the way I've been
contemplating a syndication is, start the project, work the project, pay out the investors through a refinance or
something like that, but maintain the property if | can. My question is, is if | do that, and my investors are gone, and
they're happy, and on and off, they go, and then | proceed to do 1031 exchanges or anything else. Do | have any
other obligations to my investors? Or I've explained to them the deal, they're happy, and away they go. And then the
1031 is merely my own tax planning and mechanism? Well, so I'm going to jump in. There's two parts to that, john.

One is the legal question. In other words, how you set up your operating agreement to make sure that you have the
right to take your investors out in that manner. Because if you're doing that, and you've used their money to accrue a
benefit to yourself, and that's been the plan from the beginning, you just need to make sure you explain that and
that they bought into your game plan. That's question number one, which isn't a CPA question. It’s a ratio question.
It's a legal question. So you can bring that back up on the legal side, and we can have that conversation when
Mauricio is on. I'm not qualified to comment on it, but | just want to make you aware, just giving them their money
back as the proceeds of a cash out refinance finance on an asset that they own. might might be problematic if you
haven't properly disclosed, setting that aside. The second part of the question is really a tax question. And the way |
understand the question is if | have done this presumably the profit up to that point belong to my investors, then, you
know, kind of what's your carry forward basis? And can you do a 1031 tax deferred exchange? And how does that
work? And | don't know the answer to that one, Mike. So I'm stumped, I'm going to toss to you because you're better
qualified.

Mike Pine 35:18

Thanks, you absolutely can do a 1031. And in the situations, as you explain it, now, you're basically the sole owner of
the underlying property, it's a great way to avoid paying taxes. And | agree with Ross, | think 1030 ones are here to
stay, | hope anyways, it would be absolutely nuts for them to get rid of it. So I'm also planning and advising clients
that it's most likely going to still be here. So you just want to make sure you do it the right way. If the property is let's
say, you created a partnership or an LLC tax as a partnership, and you worked with Mauricio or your attorney to
make sure that they truly were exited, and are no longer partners on the partnership property still there. You're the
sole owner of, let's say, a single member LLC. And you need to make sure that you do the 1031 properly. Most of the
time, the easiest way to do it correctly, and have no problem with the IRS is to have the LLC actually do the 1031 and
make sure you work with a 1031 fiduciary don't do it on your own, there’s so many hoops to jump through and hurdles
to get over. And if you miss just one of them, buyers can come back and say no, that was taxable event, sell the

property and give me your money. So it is very possible. And | think it's a great idea.

Russ 36:32

And | found that those internet intermediaries are really knowledgeable, very specifically in the area of 1031. Tax. And
that we flesh out will be there. And then that way, | think you guys will both cross train each other, which will be
great. And then we will take the benefit of that training and share it with the membership as a permanent piece of
content that anybody now or in the future can come in and tap into. And then we just have to make sure that if
anything changes in the law, or the tax code, that we just update that so people, you know, | think the one thing that
| want to remind everybody, because even though Mike is a CPA and qualified to give you an opinion, he's not giving
you professional advice for your individual situation. And can't do that in a group setting anyway, so if you care to
engage him, and then have him give you professional advice that you can actually rely upon, then then obviously,
you can do that. And Mike would love it if you did. That's a great way to support him in the program. But, but just
understand that this is ideas and information until you have an engagement. The same is true with Mauricio and and
all of us. We're just here to give you ideas and information and show you professionals that you can engage where
you can get professional advice that you can rely on us to paper, your folder, and one of the great defenses if
anything ever goes sideways. As | relate. I'm not a professional, | relied upon professional advice, and you've got the
documentation to prove it. So we're going to call that a wrap for today. Mike, | wanted to say thank you for your
contribution. | thought it was a great session, | learned a lot. And I’m really looking forward to doing the next one,
everybody, thank you for coming with your questions and your enthusiasm. | look forward to doing the next one next
month. And you don't have to wait till the last minute to come up with those questions. You know, send them as you
go. And if you come up with something really good, then | might call upon Mike and do a special session just to deal
with that one topic because as you can see, any one of these things could be a big topic all in and of itself. So thanks
a lot, everybody. And we'll see you in the next one.

Scott Florida 1:01:51
See you Oh, thank you.
me like one of the big selling points for us in syndication is the tax benefits and then so what I'm hearing is I'm going
to tell my investors Hey, we're going to be able to defer your taxes and give you these big you know, we do a cost
segregation so we got some big losses up front but then when we get to the end of the deal, well then you got to pay
taxes on all that when you transition out and so that seems like oh no, | didn't see that comment and I'm gonna get
hit hard as an investor when | get away from this deal and so | see that as potential trouble you know, for investors in
the future so how do you protect your investors on that? Or should | be even concerned about that should | put that
ball in their court but you know what, what are the steps that we need to take in thinking through the transition out
of an investment to make sure we're in good shape and our investors are in good shape financially?

Mike Pine 49:19

That's a great question Scott and should you be worrying about it | say yes. Because it can sour your investor
relationship really bad if they had no anticipation they were no tax the property sold and cash got distributed out |
think it's very important to communicate with them to explain them. If you want have investors that want to be in it
for a long term, this is gonna be their retirement vehicle like no, you're kind of considering what some of your with
with your current fund that you're starting. If they're okay with it just started as a 1031 fun say, Hey, we're not going to
sell any of the properties unless we unanimously you know, or unless majority of us vote to sell it, but they plan and
the intent is to keep rolling for the base. And not a capital gains taxes assuming capital gains taxes still exist, but not
paying tax on the money and continue to do 1031. That's a plain vanilla easy way to do it again, and communicate,
don't let them be surprised when they have to owe tax. After you've done your accelerated depreciation, if you're
operating for years, around five or six, you're gonna start spinning off taxable income, even though they've been
getting typecast free distributions, that’s first for five years, they're gonna start paying tax on that income, assuming
you distribute it, even if you don't distribute it, they're gonna pay tax. So it's really important to communicate and let
them know this is how it works. And just share that with them ahead of time. And again, as | mentioned earlier, and
it's a really complicated way of doing things that are ways to let some of your investors enjoy the opportunities of a
1031 exchange, while your other investors get their money out and pay tax on the sale. It just gets very complicated,
you need to be a large fund to be able to absorb the costs, we had a syndicator just go through that and involve
creating that statutory trust, and they cost them over 80 or $90,000, just in fees to make it possible. So there are
ways to do it. But communication with your investors is hugely important. If you want to create and grow your

reputation in the market,

Russ 51:16

it goes back to the fundamental thing we talked about secrets of successful syndication is matching the objective of
the money with the performance or planned performance of the deal. And the deal is not just the property itself. But
it's these tax strategies. It could be privacy, it could be jurisdiction, if you're doing like a resort property, we talk
about, you know, personal benefit. The other thing is, is you have to know what kind of money you're putting in, right
if you're putting in 1031 tax deferred exchange money, which is a challenge. But if you did that, then that's probably
somebody who's going to be interested in that type of benefit. If you're putting some money in where somebody is
putting in retirement account money, they are not going to care at all, because they aren't looking for a tax benefit.
In fact, the bigger the capital gain is, the better because they're probably not going to pay tax or if they are they're
kicking it way down the road. So this is where it's important for you to have a good basic understanding of the tax
ramifications of your deal to different subsections of the your demographic, high income earner A w turn to earner is
going to have a different tax situation than a self employed person who has maybe greater options. But in some
cases, while larger tax liability as Tom wheelwright often points out, somebody who is investing in a retirement
account is going to be in a different position. And so you just have to be aware of that. And of course, if you're if
you're confident, and you feel like you're backstopped with teams, people like Mike, who you can bring into the
conversation to represent your side of things. And in a discussion with a prospective investor, you may end up pulling
that investor from their current advisor to your advisor. And that just secures that much more of your client control
and reinforcement of what it is you're you're doing, you know, you have to let the professionals decide in which cases
that creates a conflict of interest they're not interested in doing but that's not your issue. You can you can figure that
out. So just just be aware of that. Now, Mike, we got another question here from john. And this is about how
frequently if syndicators actually use 1030 ones. Now | know for a while Dave Zook looked at it, and he thought this
was a huge untapped opportunity. So many people wanted to do it. So few people were doing it. And he went off
down that path. And Dave is a pretty resourceful guy. And he eventually managed it. He just decided that it wasn't
worth it. Now we did another show with Paul Moore from wellings Capital about Delaware statutory trust. So if you
haven't heard that in the real estate, guy's radio show archives go look that up. And he's doing it through, you know,
like | said, dsts, which really, honestly, I'm an all time I've been It was the first time I'd ever heard of it in the last 12
months or something. So, you know, all this time, | didn’t know these things existed. So I'm not really 100% Sure. In

our world, we don't see people doing a lot of it. But Mike, you're active in the space. What are you saying?

Mike Pine 54:05

It not a lot of people are doing it? It seems like more investors. It’s all based on what the market. Wow. So what are
the investors, most investors or they want a high return? They want that cash? They're not looking at investing in

some type of vehicle for 1520 years, they want that money out in five or seven years. So no, | don't see it often at all.
But the new Delaware statutory trust way that came around in the last couple of years, you're starting to see that use
more and more because it gives the individual investors the option of doing it. But one other thing and | know it's a
little bit off topic back to the question that Scott asked. Another option is even if you don't do a 1031 and you create
a taxable event for your investors, you distribute the cash, well, they're going to be paying tax unless they can find a
way to offset that tax, which is a great opportunity for you to raise another fund and give them some more
accelerated depreciation and that can offset or completely nullify The tax that they wouldn't paid for the one that
they sold based on investing a new entity with you, so they get their cash and they're still not paying tax. So it's a

great opportunity for you as well.

Russ 55:09

Bonus time. So that’s huge. Because it really is the idea that we think about solving the investors problems on the
front end making the sale and the initial deal. And when we handed their money back, maybe the problem we think
about is just having another deal for them to do. But if we take it the next level down, we realize that when we hand
them their money back, not only are we handing them back idle cash, which is one form of problem, but we're
handing them back a taxable event to Mike's point. And then if we are cognizant of that, because we understand

who our investors are, and on an individual basis, and we understand what their tax challenges are, then for those
who are going to be most primed to accept a tax benefit, we can go craft the deal in such a way. Because again, any
deal can be crafted in different ways, right, you can take one deal, and you can magnify the tax benefits or magnify
the profit privacy benefits or magnify the cash flow, there's things you can focus on, so that you can offer that
particular benefit to the group of investors you think are most likely to populate that deal, or you segment it, and you
segment the benefits. Which kind of brings me to this last question, Mike, that I'll toss because we don't have any
new ones. And it's the one that | said | was going to ask you. And it's this notion that you don't necessarily have to
distribute the tax benefits equally among all the participants. So two to two questions in one. If | have a subset, like |
say, I've got a raised $2 million, and | got a million dollars of it. They came in from Roth IRAs, and they just don't care
about tax benefits. And then I’ve got the other half who does care? Is there a way for me to take the tax benefits
available and get it to the people who care and offer something else to the other people as compensation? And
then? And that's question number one. And then a variation of that is I'm in the deal, too, as a syndicator. And

maybe I've raised all IRA money, and they don't need the depreciation, and | really want it. So are there ways to do

either one or both of those scenarios?
Russ 13:27

okay? Okay. Because your, your, your, your accounting is going to be an overlay on top of your entity structure. And
then you have to have a cash flow kind of plan. You know, so in real simple terms, | have an operating account, that's
a company | do, that's a, that’s what | pay bills out of, | have a revenue account, and that's where | accept money in.
And as soon as the money comes in, | drain it, and | put it in reserves, | put it in a reserve account, nobody has the
reserve account number. And then | hold it there, | called it a DRF, a dedicated reserve fund and then there's, you
know, a spreadsheet or a chart of accounts that says what all the money is for a reserve for and then if | have an
unallocated that it’s in an unallocated and the cumulative total of all those individual columns is the total balance in
the account. Right so if | have money set aside for reserves on this project, or hiring a new employee here, or I'm
building up a reserve to buy a new piece of equipment, or to have you know, whatever or if | have unallocated
money, then that's money that | can transfer into my my operating account to pay bills so | keep my operating
account at a minimum to be able to just handle my cash flow needs on a weekly basis. And then the revenue
account Like | said, | keep | keep like 1000 bucks in it right when the money comes in and get it out right away.
Because if that's if credit cards are coming in, then the credit card company can pull money back out again. People
wire money in and or something happens they can wire money out. | just didn’t People have that account number to
Mike's point. So | just any any account that people have that account number just doesn't have much in it right the
the habit, the reserve account is separate. And that's on the that's on the operating business. And then each
syndication is going to have its own set of monies. And then the only thing Mike, | want to ask the question is when
people are putting together their a syndication, and they yet they haven't decided, maybe they don't have the entity,
they're going to take the property in a contract. And they're going to, you know, maybe assignable to an entity, that
they're going to create a, you know, a single purpose entity for the purpose of holding this. And, you know, a lot of
times sellers don't want you to be the guy out there trying to wholesale. So you need to make sure that you let them
know, no, this is going to be an entity I'm going to do, I’m going to close, we just don't have the entity set up. That's
fine from a legal perspective in a kind of a negotiation perspective. But the other part of it is, is from a banking
perspective, right? If you do that, or you begin to receive money in from investors in a first wave, can you can you or
should you have a like a, what would be like a trust account, where you would hold it, and it's not, it's not the it goes
in, and then it's not your operating account. So you don't pay any of your general expenses. It’s a single purpose
account where you receive the money in, and then you hold it there until you have the bank account set up from the
appropriate entity, and then you move it out, you never mingle your general operating account. With that, that’s why
I've always done it. So Mike, What say you,

Mike Pine 16:44

| think that’s a great way of doing it. That's how most of the large syndicators do it, because they're going through
lots of deals and lots of new, even new funds. So | have one main account that they use, and they call that trust
account, or escrow account or some kind of account. And that's what you use until you create your entity and then
you move things into there. And as long as you're accounting for properly, even if you get the property before you
have the entity or the property level entity, you still account for the expenses as as do do from in the equity account.
And then or in the trust account. And then in the property level account, those are where the expenses are picked up,

the revenue is picked up the loan is held. It’s just doing the proper accounting for

Russ 17:30

Okay, and so in that account, again, you're not going to put any of your personal money, any of your general
operating money, you're not going to any of your general operating receipts, it’s it's a place for money that you're
basically holding in trust for a deal. And you might have two or three different deals all in there if I'm hearing

correctly, but you need to have each one of those accounts. Or you like a separate sub account a chart of accounts,
let's, let's do a module on that. So yeah, and then the team, the team watches these videos. So just make sure that
somebody takes a note on that. So | don't forget that we want to do that. And then | want to add on a couple of
quick things, Jana, for everybody's sake, just, you know, kind of having been there done that. Totally agree, you have
to have a standard Chart of Accounts, you have to have a standard procedure for how you're going to do the books,
what you also have to do is have a process for updating the the chart. So the one thing that is the cardinal never
never ever do like grounds for termination in my book is if you have a bookkeeper who changes your chart of
accounts without going through the formal process, because the minute you have somebody just kind of inventing it
as they go along, that's where it becomes disastrous. So that’s number one, you get there's a there's a process and a
procedure for modifying the chart of accounts and the bookkeeper does not get to unilaterally make that decision
on the fly. Which means there's going to be there, all the stuff that goes into there, ask my accountant category. And
then that's going to be a meeting between you and the accountant and the bookkeeper to review all of those and
allocatable funds. And then your development of your chart of accounts becomes an iterative process as you go
through that because you realize that your original chart of account didn’t contemplate what you're running to in the
real world. But you need to be involved in that decision. Because ultimately, these reports need to feed you the
information you need to be able to make good business decisions. And of course, your accountant needs to be
involved because you need to feed them good information so they can file accurate returns. With respect to spot
checking. I'm a big believer in the peredo principle. So you know, it is possible that somebody could steal from you
and somebody could make a big mess in you know, nickel and dimed transactions at the bottom of the 8020. But if
you're paying attention to the 20% of transactions that cover 80% of your expenditures, the odds are anything
substantial, you're going to catch early when it matters. So in those regular reviews, which have to be part of your
time block, when the accountant knows or the bookkeeper knows that they're going to have your attention. Your CPA
knows they need to be either on call or on the call. And then you're going to be available then to help them code.
You know, decode those mystery deals. And you can ask them questions about things that are in your books that you
don't understand, based on the 8020 right, | wouldn't waste | sat on a board of directors and these guys didn't pack
us out and it drove me nuts because they literally would grill the executive director about some $30 item out of the
office supply budget, and I'm like, folks, this doesn't matter. Right? What matters is this $10,000 expense that we did
for this new piece of equipment or whatever. Did anybody look at the invoice? Did anybody look at the the, you
know, the payable to make sure that we paid? What we were invoiced, and there wasn't some kickback or some
spread or something. | mean, that's where that’s where those things get buried as my 18 cents. So, Mike, any
additional comments on that before we toss it back to Janet, because she?

@ Janna Hubbs 25:27

Yeah, just second, | think one of the things that | need to clarify here is | do have standard operating procedures. And
like when something changes, | in fact, | just updated one, because we went from a one thing to another. So | just
updated that and sent that over to the bookkeepers to say, hey, communicate this. | have. So I've have standard, |
have a chart of accounts that are consistent with everything with the exception of our property management
company, and everything. And we have asked, we use the ask my accountant, you know, type situation, | think it has
to do my question. And so I'm trying to look at those things, but it has to do with like looking at the p&l and the
balance sheet? And what's the frequency? Or or what, you know, what is a recommendation without getting in the
weeds too deep? And knowing when something doesn't quite look, right. | mean, right now I'm looking at I’m trying to
look at some of the company accounts on a monthly basis, and especially if it's a new development like we have,
and then others not, maybe on a quarterly basis. But what's kind of a recommendation, or is there even one out
there?

© Mike Pine 26:39

Um, yeah, there's all these recommendations. But what sounds like what you're doing is is is right, you always want to
be involved a lot on the front end, make sure things are being set up initially correct and make sure things are
address does show up in any public directories. My phone number doesn't show up anywhere. I'm very, very, very
careful about all that. Because in the beginning, | wasn’t. And | found out that it no fun. Well, you know, | think I've
told the story, | had a landlord that was next to a very troublesome, he owned a property next to a section eight
tenant of mine. And the woman just wanted me to do something, and | didn't want to do it. And so she just sat in my
front yard until | came out of my house. And that didn't feel good. No, so it was the home traumatized my family. So
not a fan. You know, ultimately, we ended up resolving it. And, you know, | was trying to the tenant was a bigger pain
in my butt than wasn't hers. But, you know, as far as she was concerned, it was my responsibility. Why don’t what am
| supposed to do? | mean, you know, yeah, the laws, the law, you can only get them out when you can get them out.
That's the way it works. And they gonna do what they do until you get them out. Anyway. Okay, so there's that one.
You had a couple others real quick?

GS) Scott Florida 11:41

No, we keep rolling. Yeah. So I’m, I'm looking at what accounts do | open? That's the next question. I'm thinking about
opening three accounts. One is for receiving receiving investor funds, another would be a savings account for holding
reserves, and then an additional checking account for the day to day management of the funds in the syndication.
Mike and | talked a little bit about that before, but | just wanted to clarify, that's a good way to start and or do you

have other recommendations?

ro ) Mike Pine 12:10

No, | think that's a great idea, technically only need one checking account. But you really want to, you need to hold
back your reserves for repairs. So it's good to have that set away. At least when you're starting out. Before you learn
how to create funds within your checking accounts, | have one for reserves, | recommend having one you can use
that same reserve account, have the reserves for you know, any, any repairs or maintenance needed, but also start
accruing your distributions every month as as rents come in, take out a piece and put it in there for distribution. So
when your quarterly distributions or however often you're doing it, when they're when they're ready to be paid, you
actually have money there, then you've been saving up for it. So | do recommend that. And then the operating
account, you do want to have separate because people are going to have that account number, you're going to pay
checks out of that, you will make payments to it. People are going to see where their deposits go. So you want that

to be separate as well.

©) Scott Florida 13:05

Okay.

© Russ 13:07

Got it. | have | mean, have you done your entity structure yet? Yes. Okay. So you should have a structure for your

syndication company. And then you're gonna have a structure for your syndication deal. Right? Right. Okay,

G) Scott Florida 13:19

I've just done | mean, I've just created the original entity of common grace capital, | haven't done anything like with
the deal yet. But Mauricio set up the company,
bookkeeping for many of our clients. And then we have the tax side where we help you do tax planning, we try to be
we try to be proactive tax planners not just meet with you, after the year is over. It’s too late to do anything different.
We like to meet with you during the year, and to help make sure that you're making the right choices, doing the right
decisions before the years over to minimize your tax and optimize your tax.

© Russ 02:34

Yeah, and | mean, obviously, that’s huge, because | think anybody that's ever been through showing up, Tom
wheelwright says all the time, if you want to change your tax, you need to change your fax, but you can't change
your stuff after the fact, we're seeing you can do to your CPAs coming after the tax year has closed and say, hey,
what can | do to mitigate last year's taxes, | think we all understand that. But part of being a business owner. And
that's what being a syndicator is, is being really attentive to thinking ahead, planning ahead, getting yourself in a
position and staying ahead of these things. Because you now have a greater level of responsibility in terms of your
bookkeeping, in terms of just demonstrating yourself to be a very good steward of money, and being able to create
accurate and timely reports and help people meet their individual tax filing requirements. And so if you're not that
far down the path, you'll find out that bookkeeping, reporting, and even tax preparation and tax strategy are all
major weaknesses of many, many people in the syndication business, which means if you can pay attention to it and
become really good at it, it can actually become a selling point. Because remember, people buy your deal, but which
is the horse, but they really buy the jockey, which is you and your team and your organization. So having the right
people on the bus and Mike a big part of Mike's practice now is specializing in working with syndicators. And he has
made himself available on a great level, he was at our last SMC meetup for those of you that don’t know and the
one before that, and now once a month, he's going to be doing these ask the mentor. So your mission as a
syndicator is to go out and get stuck is to go out and push yourself to try to figure out and realize, hey, I've got a
problem. | don't know how to solve it. These ask the mentor sessions are designed to help you have someplace to go
where you can, you know, even find out what you don’t know because you're gonna hear other people ask questions
you didn't even think of asking. With that said, | really do encourage you to come bring your own questions rather
than just waiting to see if somebody else's ask a brilliant question. But fortunately, we have some brilliant questions.
So we're gonna go ahead and kick that off. So Scott, | can't see the roster. Are you on the call? Scott, Florida? Is there
an army Okay, good, man. Okay, so I've got your question here in front of me, and it's actually threefold. So but why

don't you go ahead and ask it if you're prepared to or | can read it for you if you'd like.

& Scott Florida 04:57

Well, I've got it here. So Yeah, I'm planning to open a bank account soon, just kind of the first step towards the taken
funds in and in my mind, | don't have money, income yet to justify a location like a, you know, a foe office and or
even a peal box at this point till the deals completed, I'm really expecting that all of my investors that are going to be
in my first deal are going to be people that already know me already know where | live. And so | don't see a major
conflict in my mind with setting out at least at the beginning with having my personal address an info on the on the
bank account and everything else. And so I'm trying not to overthink it. But at the same time. You know, I'm kind of
stuck on this point, because | try to figure out, do | move ahead with the accounts with my personal stuff on it? Or do
| need to wait on that and, you know, really push myself to pay the extra money? They don't have income to cover at

this point?

© Russ 06:05

I'm gonna chime in real quick, Mike, because this is a three fold question. It's an accounting question, kind of. And it's
probably more a branding question and a legal question. So I'll try to address the first two. And then Mike, you may

have some feedback on the on the tax and accounting side. But you know, to me, | don't know, you know, how much
so they can be a great resource, although you should always, you know, compare everything they said with your own
CPA and get advice that you can actually rely on. | do think, though, that you need to be cognizant, coming back to
the legal side of it is that when you carry an entity forward, you carry all the residual liability forward to the to the, to
the extent of the statute of limitations. So remember, when when when you close out a project, if you reuse the entity,
everything that was in the past in that project is still a pathway into the asset and a liability. Whereas if you are able
to transfer it into a new ownership, and | think effectively and again, | don't know from a tax perspective, but it seems
like once you take the investors out, you're buying out what Mike their shares in the in the LLC. So you use the
proceeds from the cash out refinance to buy out their, their shares, and now you remain the sole owner. Once you
become the sole owner, can you then transfer as the sole owner from one LLC into a new LLC of which you are the
sole owner? So you can get that firewall? Is that not a taxable event if the ownership is exactly the same? And all
you've done is change the entity? If you

om ) Mike Pine 37:57

do it, right, yes, but you have to first distribute it out to yourself. So you're, let's say you own the LLC, you distribute
the property out to yourself in the LLC, and then you contribute it into a new LLC. And you do | just be careful when
you're doing the 1031. And who's holding it. If you're gonna do it that way, then you want to do the 1031 exchange. If
you distribute the property out to yourself, then you personally want to do the 1031 exchange, and then you can
contribute it into a new LLC for tax purposes that works. Just again, be careful.

© Russ 38:29

And you probably already realizing that it’s really difficult to get tax and legal tax questions answered, because
there's legal ramifications. And the lawyers will have the same problem. They'll give you advice, but then they'll tell
you, | can't give you tax advice. As we discussed at the syndication, mentoring club meetup, you know, one of our
inner circle members was having a similar issue. And we just said, okay, we just got to get everybody on the phone.
So we're in the process. In fact, we had a meeting about this this morning of organizing strategy teams so that these
people all learn how to work really, really well together. And then they come in and you can just bang through a call
and get both sides of the equation answered, reconcile the discrepancies and disagreements, get to consensus and
come up with an actionable plan that you can move on, instead of just bantering back and forth at high expense
and really slowing the decision making process down, just bang it out. It’s a lot more fun for your advisors, as Michael
tell you, and it's a lot more efficient for you. The call is a little bit more expensive than a typical call. But when you
add up all the back and forth, it’s actually cheaper and faster. So there's a lot of benefits to doing that way. But you
got to have people that are used to working together. So one of the things that we're going to be doing once Mike
gets past silly season is we're going to be doing some joint content with Mauricio and Mike. You know, for example,
this is gonna be a question | want to ask you, Mike later in the session, assuming we have time after we deal with
everybody else's questions, but you made a comment about The syndicator being able to take the depreciation
benefit, if the operating agreement is set up properly, well, you don't do operating agreements, the lawyer does what
the lawyer doesn't understand that you are trying to do that, then he may not put in the appropriate provisions, he
may not even be aware of the appropriate provisions. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to get Mike and Mauricio
together, and we're going to work that out. And then we'll create a tutorial on it. So that you'll understand what you
should be looking for in your operating agreements to make sure that, that you're going to be able to, you know, get
those benefits. So that depreciation schedule that you're after, if in fact, that's part of your game plan. Okay, so now
let's flip it over Jeremy. And you've got a question here about ppm, blah, blah, blah, I'm gonna let you ask the

question.

® Scott Florida 40:45

am . om . “8 om ce ee
Real quick question. On. So you don't have a company, you don't have anything you spend $10,000, with your
attorney out of your own account, whatever account that is. And then you start an asset management company, and
then you start a syndication company, you go out and raise funds, and then you have it in your operating agreement
that, you know, whatever the cost of the attorney was you, you can just, you know, pay that amount. And so you take,
say that $10,000, and then you have a $30,000 raise fee. And so you take that out of the syndication company, and
you send it to the asset management company, and then the asset management company pays that older account

back and you just document that.

Mike Pine 41:32

Absolutely, and you should put it in the oae. Or in the ppm that all expenses necessary to get this off the ground and
to create the entity are reimbursable, to the general partner to the syndicator. And yeah, just document, you actually
turn in an expense report with the invoice with the receipt, and make sure it gets accounted for as the expense in the

entity. It's non taxable to you when you get reimbursed. Okay, and not not overly complicated.

Russ 41:59

No, well, yeah. And then just remember, if you go back to secrets of successful syndication, where | talked about, you
know, the difference between a budgeted item and an expense item. So you know, a budget item is something that
you put in the budget, and you're estimating, this is what it's going to cost, and the company is expected to pay for it.
So if you budget, the legal expense as a separate line item from your promotional fee, then you don't take it out of
your promotional fee, you take it out of the budget. And, you know, theoretically, you could be over budget. And then
you know, but it's probably not good form. To do that if you can. The other the other part of it is, is if it's an expense
item, then whatever the actual bill is, that’s what the company pays, period. And so that's kind of the difference
between the two. But when you're doing your pro formas, and you're showing people, even at a high level, you know,
here's the race fee, here's the management fee, here's the legal expense reimbursement, here's this, here's that, as
long as it’s a line item, and when you put all that in a blender and hit puree, and you give them an ROI, that makes
sense, they're gonna be fine with it. If you go to you look at it, you're like, | can’t get the ROI | want, you can push
some of those expense items up and basically pay them out of the fees that you earn for doing the rays or doing the
management if you want to. And personally | like things to come out of if you're going to have to do that haven't
come out of the Promote. And that's none of the the Investor's Business, because the line item is, is promote. And if
they agree to that, then what how you spend that money is 100% up to you. But that’s the shortest path to getting
reimbursed, because that's upfront money that you get as soon as you close out the race. And you've earned the
money by by filling the race. So if you have like a min max, you say, okay, a minimum, if | raise a million bucks, it's all
all, you know, all full soeed ahead. And but you know, I'm going to raise up to $2 million. But at 1 million we start at 1
million, you've earned it you take right and again, that's a marischal question, not a accounting question. But you got
three components, you got to worry about the tax side of things, you got to worry about the legal side of things. And
then you have to worry about the business side of things and the business side of things or cash flow, right? You got
to take money when you got to take money. And if you budget poorly, you're going to have a cash flow problem. Like
we talked about if you if you set up your syndication, so you get all your money at the back end, when you close the
profit. You only take profit sharing, you can't scale. Because the bigger you get, the more cash flow problems you
create for yourself. It's like somebody who's operating a business. And they're they're, they're agreeing to net 15 to all
their vendors and then they're giving their customers net 30 right you're going to eat the more you sell the more of a
cash flow problem you're going to create for yourself. Your p&l looks fantastic if you're on accrual, but you will have
no cash and so You know, if you just if all that just went right over your head, then then let membership know and
we'll do a special tutorial just on that, because | have seen it happen when people do not understand the difference
between a p&l and a cash flow statement. You need to obsess over cash flow. If you are doing deals that pencil on
May 5, 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on
Accounting and Tax...

@ Wed, 9/22 2:57PM © 1:02:08

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

investors, tax, question, people, money, deal, bookkeeper, syndication, mike, account, property, work, pay, create, entity,

syndicator, expense, mauricio, budget, operating

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Janna Hubbs, Mike Pine

) Russ 00:17

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ and we are here for our what may 2021. Ask the mentors but it's our
inaugural inaugural. Ask mentors on accounting and tax. And so our resident mentor, and expert is Mike pine from
pine and company. CPAs. Oh, Mike, welcome.

om ) Mike Pine 00:38

Thanks. Happy to be here. Yeah.

© Russ 00:40

So we got a big crowd, which I'm excited about. | kind of figured this would be a hot topic. We do have some pre
submitted questions. And Mike, | gave you a heads up, | have a question for you as well, assuming that there's room.
But before we do this, just because maybe you're a little bit new to everybody. Why don't you take like a minute, and
give folks a little bit of an update about your, you know, your kind of your background, your professional
qualifications, and specifically the niche of practice that you've been operating in and why | invited you to be part of
the program.

 ) Mike Pine 01:14

Okay, so I'm a CPA, I've been in practice now for 21 years. | started my career off 21 years ago at
PricewaterhouseCoopers venture capital and private equity group. So before | could even learn how to fill out my
own 1040, | was doing large private equity, and investment funds, partnership, taxes, and partnership tax is kind of
the leading tax regime for all things real estate. So when | left PricewaterhouseCoopers, after five years, | got into a
smaller regional firm, and no one knew partnership tax. So | got into real estate tax. And I've been doing real estate
tax now ever since. Our firm specializes in real estate investments, real estate syndications, and real estate tax, and

as well as the partnership taxation aspect of it. So that's what we do. We have an accounting side that does the
© Russ 57:19

it is a big hairy butt

© Mike Pine 57:22

is a bigger butt. So the IRS allows you to allocate income and expenses of any way that has what they call
substantial economic effect, just a big IRS where that leads to 90 pages of regulations. You cannot simply your
motivation for allocating deductions to one subclass of your your investors to the other cannot be for tax avoidance
or to shift tax consequences. But if you come up with a good economic reason of why we're allocating them this way,
and you usually can, there’s good economic reasons. Well,

© Russ 57:58

it's what it took to attract the capital, right? | mean, so so we take the overall tax savings, what | would do is | would
take the overall tax savings calculated, | would increase the rate of return for the class of investors who don't need
the tax break. So they’re being compensated. And then we would give the tax break to the other people. And | would
show them the after tax return on their investment, which enhances their overall return and attracts the capital. And
of course, the economic benefit is without their capital, there's no deal.

© Mike Pine 58:27

That makes perfect sense to you, me in common. It's common sense. Because for the IRS, so you have to go through
a little more hoops and hurdles to convince the IRS and | mean, there are established ways of doing it. within
reasonable parameters, so yes, but you just have to spend some time talking about it. And then we get to your part
two, because this is the one | love the most. | hear so many people say I'd like any cost segregation on my property,
because all my investors are in IRAs, they don't need it, and there's no way | can get the benefit of it. That's
absolutely not true. It gets complicated on the solutions for but this is where it's really important that your CPA is
working with your attorney. Your attorney has to write certain things in the agreement that they normally wouldn't
want to write. So the attorneys normally are focused on just covering your liability covering any potential
contingency that might happen and protect you. But by taking or assuming a little more risk, you can get what's
called tax basis and allow you to take a larger cut of the cost segregation or the depreciation and accelerated

depreciation, you can do it you just have to get it done up front. There's really three main ways of doing it. | don't
know if you want me to get in the details

© Russ 59:44

of it, Russ? Well, no, because we're at the top of the hour. So let's do this. | wanted people to know that it’s possible
and that if they’re, you know, ready, willing and able ripe ready to go, then they can reach out to you and you can
help them on an individual basis. Meanwhile, what I'm going to do is get you in ratio together. And we're going to do
a tutorial. And we're going to talk it through. So we'll do one offline, where we kind of work the kinks out. And | ask

you guys to get together and do that. And then we'll create a piece of content for the platform where the answers
where where you have the cumulative total of you know, say you're doing three deals, and each deal has a certain
amount of money, the total account is the balance is equal to the balance of that. If that's too much, then just take
the extra time and just open up an individual bank account in the name of your syndication company and make it a
single purpose entity or account for only holding the money you're bringing in. To stage it while you're waiting to put
it into the the new entity you're going to form with its own Al and that's that's the safest way to do it, it’s just a little
bit more work because you actually have to go open the bank account, you're never going to use it again. Probably.
So it's preferable to to have you to have a single account with those silos or have maybe if you think you're only ever
gonna have two or three just have two or three escrow accounts set up and you can you can rotate what they're
used for just you know, you fill them up in the MDM, and then you repurpose them. That's another way to do it. Right,
Mike? Yeah, okay. Okay. Um, let's, let's, I'm Scott, I'll come back to you. | don't want to dominate the whole thing with
one group because we got Jana with some questions. So and then if anybody, anybody, yeah, we'll come back to you
because | know you got more. And then and then if anybody listening has a question or you know, is prompted to
come up with something, just put it in the chat. I've got that in front of me, and I'll see it. | can't see. | don't guys have
you guys in gallery mode. So | can't see everybody who's on the call if you're waving your hand at me or whatever. So
just put in the chat and I'll see it. So, Jana, let's turn to you. After you unmute yourself, there you go.

Janna Hubbs 19:37

Um, my first question was as the CEO or CFO of several companies and syndications, what is the best way to
oversee our bookkeepers that they are entering things into the right Chart of Accounts and just making sure that
they're labeling Everything okay? You know or correctly?

Mike Pine 20:02

That's a very good question because that's where a lot of people get in trouble in their accounting records don't end
up. They're not, they don’t end up being as accurate and helpful as you would hope. So | think it's very important to
come up with a standardized Chart of Accounts and SLP standard operating procedures for how you do accounting,
and what the codings go to what type, what what accounts, each type of transaction goes to, | think it’s important
when you start up and when you get started, create that. And then you can add on to it as you find new and novel
things happening and types of transactions but always create like an SLP. So if your bookkeeper gets hit by a bus or
wins the lottery and leaves you, then you're not suddenly doing a whole new different kind of accounting with your
new person, and you hold them accountable to it. And you can do spot reviews, | don’t know how much level of the
number of transactions that you have. But if you can't review all the transactions once every month, or to at least
review some of the transactions once you know on a regular basis and do some spot checks. And if you see the
problems explained to them, find out why they did it. And if you need to modify your slps and your chart of accounts,
you do it then. But it's just really good to come up with a standardized process, standardized Chart of Accounts, and
make sure everyone's on the same page. If you have multiple bookkeepers, doing multiple syndications, that’s where
things get really wacky if they're doing it all in different ways. So by having a standard Chart of Accounts across
every entity, you have every syndication you have, and standard accounting procedures. One other thing about
revealing your bookkeepers is they actually can be one of the most dangerous exposures of risk to you. Because
they're the ones tracking the money. And if they want to steal from you, they're usually in a good position to do it. So
you want to have if you get big enough, you need to have a segregation of duties and internal controls that prevent
them from from being able to steal from you or at least mitigate it, you can never fully prevent it. But you can add a
lot of mitigation factors. So we call those you know, internal controls. And | could go on for hours about those. But

Russ 22:09

well, let's do this, let's Mike, we can actually because we're going to be creating some specific tutorials. And so we will
paper and are profitable and you manage cash flow, you can | probably shouldn't say this, but you can literally never

look at the p&l and it won't matter. The p&l will take care of itself. Look at the p&l but but but don’t don't just look at
the poi ignore cash flow because cash flow is the mean of kill you

© Mike Pine 45:39

just want to comment on what Russ said about budgeting for almost all the successful or seasoned syndications I've
seen out there they put that in there total money raised they budget the item legal fees, expenses acquisition fee, all
of the closing costs it's all budgeted in there so they raise enough money to pay for it it doesn't have to come out of
your promote and it rarely does it small things like | mean we promotes paying for us for you to grow and scale and

find new business new opportunities for your your investors. So it’s very common to see that in your pbn. Hey, this is
what we're raising money for. And part of it includes those syndication fees, those legal fees,

@ Russ 46:20

yep. And promoted so you can eat while you're raising the money until you can earn the management fees. And then
you know, when the management fees pay you to eat until you can realize the profits is which is where, you know,
hopefully, you you really enjoy some sunshine. Okay, so now we've got Michael Mead, who actually is an accountant,
| remember that at the last secrets of successful syndication, he was the only accountant in the room. And he's
asking your question, so Mike, I'll let you ask your question. Okay, | was just wondering if,

® Scott Florida 46:52

if a GP or LP could use 1031 proceeds and kind of reduce their basis in the property like | understand that we get a K.

K one with their pro rata share. But can they do something after the fact that says yeah, maybe | have 10 pieces of
property, but | use proceeds. So what | can appreciate less, something like that doable?

© Mike Pine 47:09

The general answer is no, you cannot do a 1031 exchange from one partnership interest into another partnership
interest. There is a way to make it possible though within the fund. It’s complicated involves using statutory trusts
and some of the software some of your investors might not want a 1031 and they can still cash out and other

investors do the 1031. But generally speaking, no, you can't just distribute out the money at from your partnership
interest, and then turn around and 1031 into another property. Gotcha.

© Russ 47:47

Okay, so Scott, Florida, we're back to you now.

© Scott Florida 47:55

Okay, so yeah, my question kind of related a little bit with what Michael and john brought up related to the 1031 I'm
just looking for like when you come to the conclusion of a deal and you're transitioning out of the deal, it sounds like

a 1031 is an option if everybody goes with you into a new deal. And so I'm just trying to like | think one It sounds to
tlowing, right. One thing I'm a huge fan of, and just because I'm a CPA, and a lot of people don't enjoy doing this is
creating a real budget and tracking your budget variances. So, again, whether you do it monthly or quarterly or even
semi annually, | think the two, the two drivers are that is it new or is it existing, it's been around for a while it's new,
you probably want to do it monthly for a while. But also the number of transactions, the amount of activity that goes
through, if it's a lot of money, or a lot of individual transactions, then you probably want to do it more often more
more like monthly instead of quarterly. But I'm a great fan of having your bookkeeper work with your bookkeeper
create a budget, whether it's monthly or quarterly, and then tracking and see what actually happens. And see if
there are variances and make sure you get a good explanation of why there's any large variances for small variance.
Like Like | said, it's a thin material, don't waste your time on it. But look for large variances, because if you have a
good reasonable budget, you should your operations to kind of track that and not be far off of it. If there are then
something Something needs your attention. So yeah, that's one thing i do i also for payables, | want to have your
accounts or your bookkeepers give you a schedule of payables, APS and again, at the same frequency that you're
doing the bookkeeping review, look at those and track and see if they're actually paid and make sure that more
more expenses weren't paid greater than what your intended payables were, understand what the difference is of
total expenses versus projected payables for that month or that quarter. | noticed in your question you do you make
sure that you've calendar, the insurance and taxes, those type of things you want to do, and that should be on your
schedule vapi. And you should be able to trace them to what actually happens in your budget and the things that
things look, we're on your variance report, then things probably are in either your budget is off. And that's great.

Most budgets usually are often you have to constantly readjust it, or something wonky has happened.

Russ 29:00

So a couple other things that I'll just chime in on to also if | can, and that is one is that I'm a fan of having two
bookkeepers working on the same account. Not everybody likes that. But there’s an accountability when someone
else knows that someone else is in a set of books, they have to be trained to consistent procedures. And it provides a
couple of advantages. One is accountability. Right? It means that both people are looking at the books and if
someone's going to do bad they would have to collude. And so you'd have to have two bad actors instead of just one
nobody's operating in secret. So that's number one. Number two is their cross train. So if somebody goes out, you
can continue to operate. And | think that's good. So I'd almost rather have two part time Booker keepers and one full
time bookkeeper for that reason. And obviously, you want to grow to the point where you have plenty of work for
everybody and this is a business about growth. So you have to think everything you do is about scaling and having
that redundancy So it goes back to what we talked about in operations about the idea that 80% is full, right? If
somebody has got a 40 Hour Workweek that that 32 hours, or whatever it is, they're, they’re full. And that extra eight
hours is, is training, developing your own professional skills, cross training, which means training somebody else how
to do their job, and then also process improvement, which means participating in quality improvement teams to say,
okay, you know, here's what we're doing, here's how it's working, here's what wrong, what can we fix? What can we
learn? How can we be better, if you're trying to invent quality product policies and procedures, and you're not
including your frontline people, then you don't have enough Intel to really design something that's going to work in
the real world. But you can't do that if your people are maxed out. So 80% is full. And that's just, you know, it’s hard.
It's a hard discipline, because it feels like you're wasting money, but you're not, you're not you're building in safety,
you're building in redundancy, you're building in capacity to grow. Because when you do, and land a big deal, and all
sudden, it’s a firefight, you've got people, nobody's at 100%, everybody temporarily, can go to 15, you to go to go to
go to 85, or even 90, and still have a little bit of room. And you can absorb that way you get a new person on board.
And because you've been diligently working on your policies, your procedures and cross training, it's a lot easier to
get people on board. So you know, this is just the discipline of how do you scale a business? If you're going to run
your own bookkeeping group, if you're not going to run your own bookkeeping group. And the question to the
bookkeeping team, is how do you how are you going to do this for me, and my experiences in most of them don't,
right, we've had a hell of a time finding books, you know, everybody wants to just as many billable hours as they can,
and they max their people out and you don't have redundancy, you don't have cross chain, and you don't have
quality improvement. And you don't have any capacity when something big comes in, and then you end up with
you're talking about. | mean, you know, virtual offices are 50 to $80 a month, and they'll answer your phone, they'll
give you a physical address that a real building a real office, not just a Pio box, or a UPS box or whatever. | don't
know where all of these, this trail of addresses will reside, in documents and so on. But I'm just not a fan of, you know,
revealing your your home address as a guy that has had creditors and litigators and FBI and all kinds of people
showing them wasn't stuff | was doing, it was stuff that, you know, because people | was involved with, you know, got
into trouble. And then people that you think, are your friends all sudden, not so much. So, you know, you're a nice
guy, and maybe a little bit innocent in that regard. But you always have to remember that anybody you're doing
business with is a potential plaintiffs. And so you're always playing defense, even though, you know, there's, there's
maybe not an obvious reason to do so, at that point in time. But we've had very close friends turn on us when deals
went south through no fault of our own, we didn't create the great financial crisis, we did not. But you find out that
you don't find out who your friends are until you've been through the wringer with them. So if you haven't, if you got
a group of people you've been through hell with and you know, you'd Bet Your Life on them. Okay, maybe maybe not
so much. But, and then the other thing is, again, | don't know, from IRS, you know, theoretically, IRS records are
private. But | don't know where all these addresses are going to show up. And so, you know, that that's, that’s me, you
know, from a branding perspective, | think that it's just not a great way to go. And | think, you know, from a legal
perspective, | think the less people you have mixing your business address with your personal address, | don't think
that's a great idea. And again, | you know, | don't know what you were looking at budget wise, but it’s not really that
much money to get a professional address. So, Mike, do you have any comments on that particular aspect from a
kind of a tax and accounting perspective?

Mike Pine 08:38

Yeah, the only place that | can think of where the address on record is gonna show up, that your investors are gonna
see it, but the IRS is gonna see it is on the tax return, you're gonna be issuing k ones to your investors every year, you
have to file a tax return, and every k one is going to show where the business's physical addresses so they would all
have it, then their CPAs would have it, it would basically be out in the public norm. So | do recommend and listen to
guys we work with even the smaller ones, they do use a virtual mailbox or virtual office, even if they don't actually
rent an office. They just use the mail, drop in phone service and occasionally rent the conference room the one time
a year they might need it. So I'm with Russell.

Scott Florida 09:20

So it's like 1200 bucks is something you just got to figure out a way to budget in and make it happen is what I'm
hearing.

Russ 09:26

Yeah, | mean, you have startup costs in in a business, but you should have a short path to recovery. That's why I'm a
big fan of putting the Promote, right you get you can get paid once you close out the raise. Right? Once you're
committed to doing the deal, you get paid. And again, nobody's making, you know getting rich on that. But it gives
you a short path to recoup some of these transactional costs. And some of the things you're going to do are going to
be you know, one and done. You know, when you set up your first initial entities, which is probably the expensive
thing. You only do that once And then you know, if you can pay for it all out of your first raise, and the subsequent
raises that promote actually falls more to the bottom line in the beginning, you're just trying to find the short path to
recouping costs. But having a professional address is an investment in marketing. It's an investment in legal
protection. And | just think again, because you know, it may not show up until you file a tax return, but it's going to be
in your operating agreements. Okay, if you don’t have a resident, you know, like, if you don't have a nominee, director

or a, then somebody could look up your you and your address. You know, I'm just a big fan of | don't, my home
