Russ 34:18

Yeah, | mean, actually quite a bit. So | think you know, they're, they're, each company is going to be able to present
their, their value proposition, which is a combination of here's what we can do for you. And here's what it costs. Your
mission is to see value where others don't, right, it's real estate one on one, right? When you walk down the street and
somebody sees you see a junkie or somebody else sees a junky house, you see opportunity other people don't you
see a residential property that could be a commercial property, you see opportunity, other people don't. | think, you
know, one of the things that | am is that way, and | see | see opportunity where other people don't. And so to me,
that the totality of the relationship isn't just about the service that I'm paying for and what I'm getting It’s everything
else they bring, like Mike is part of the strategy team. Right? Tom's not | didn't invite Tom. So it’s not like he said, No,
it's just, uh, Tom has a very well organized, very clear vision about what he is and what he's doing and who he's
working with and how you do things. Because | wanted to be a little bit more creative, | needed somebody that was
being willing to be a little bit more flexible. And the other thing a lot more available, like for these types of calls. But
the other part of it is is, is if you really talk about using your team, to Border Collie, your prospects and your, to your
investors, so that you have more and more of your advisors, being your clients, advisors. That makes them feel safer,
because they they're working with the same people you're working with. But it also reinforces the relationship. And so
| don't think that either one is bad, we wouldn't promote them both. If we thought either one was bad, or one was
better than the other, they're just different. And they’re in our ecosystem for a reason. And we highlight them both
and promote them both. So | don't think you can go wrong from from a quality standpoint, | just think you have to
decide anybody watching this on an individual basis. What exactly am | looking for? What am | trying to accomplish
with a team? If uh, do | want good tax advice? Do | want good value in my tax advice? Do | want to be have have a
team that | can point to and work with? That's going to be more flexible or more, more structured? How do they fit
into my overall marketing plan? You know, I'll tell you I've Mike's gonna have some scaling issues, right. We're working
with him on that. And Tom, Tom doesn't, because of the way the way he works, Tom isn’t an individual firm wealth
ability is basically a marketing and training firm. He goes out on the front end, and he generates leads because he’s
Tom wheelwright. He's a great speaker, and he travels all over the place. And he’s famous as a best selling author
and a rich dad advisor. And then he recruits CPAs into his wealth ability network, whom he trains in their strategy. So
he creates a master strategies and trains of CPAs. And whatever the business relationship between the CPAs and
wealth ability, that’s Tom's business, but he doesn't. It’s a network. It is an individual company. And it's very
geographically diverse. So maybe that means something. Maybe it doesn't, you know, Dave's book started with Tom,
and provision and then when Tom Tom sold provision to Dave's guy, I'm drawing a blank right now. And | should |
know the guy really well. I'm embarrassed. Hopefully at Garcia is there was there was Tom wheelwright, Tim Gertz,
and then Tom Burt's, who used to be Dave, CPA, so | always get Tim Gertz. And Tom Burt's confused. | don't think
Tom's with Dave anymore. But Tim still is. But Tim took over provision. So pre provision is no longer Tom wheelwright,
or associated with wealth ability. And so that's another option. Now, you know, we were not involved with Tim.
Because we've got what we need with Mike and with Tom. But those are all options out there for everybody. So,
again, | don't think you can go wrong, | think what you have to do is just, | would advise you to look at what are what
are my tactical, practical, personal needs? What do | need the person to do? And the most immediate stuff is
managing your books, managing your tax strategy, all that. But the next thing is how do they fit into my overall
business ecosystem that I'm creating my overall marketing plan. And you have to pick the person you think is going
to bring the kind of value that you're looking for outside of that, if in fact, you are looking to do any of that. And
that's where | see a lot of people, as | mentioned, at the top, where, where they don't really understand how to how
to create that level of, of integration and value. They don't don't think outside the box. And | think that that's the way
| think, and | think some of that thinking is what | bring to this party so that you guys can begin to think that way too.
The more relationships your investors have with people who are on your team, the better your relationship with your
investors will be the more reasons they will have to refer people into your world, which is everybody on your team.

And if your team is properly oriented, those referrals are going to find their way back to you. Okay, so I'll just leave
that at that he had a second. Well, does anybody have any questions? We got some people here live. Did that trigger
anything? Anybody want to ask a follow up question related to that before move on to the next topic? Okay, moving

on. So Scott, what's up? Adams number two question.
 

 

and you're going to begin to build up or replenish reserves. And then whatever the percentages are, that's different,
what | like to do is on every one of those line items, | want to have a benchmark, and the best benchmark is going to
be the property itself. If | have operating history on the property itself, then | can put a link in my spreadsheet back to
those source documents so that | can prove to anybody anywhere that | just didn't pull this number out of my rear
end, it's rooted in reality, the next best thing would be a comparable property. The next best thing would be industry
standards. The next best thing would be something or maybe above that would be a quote from a provider, or
whatever. But but you link each one of these line items back to the source document, you can either do it in the
description where you describe what the line item is, or you do it in the cell that actually has the number. And you
say this is where the number came from. And, and so now you begin to create a more useful cash flow statement.
And then of course, once you get to stabilization, which is where the thing is positive cash flow, you're going, you
know, which is critical mass, and you're working towards optimizing it. In other words, I'm positive, but I’m still not
optimal, there's still room to push the rent, there's still ways to reduce expenses, we can make certain capital
investments and create new revenue streams, whatever it is, these are things we're going to do after we get to a
certain point. So just always remember, your financial statements should reflect the lifecycle of a deal. And the major
phases are startup to MVP, or launch launched Critical Mass critical mass to optimal performance. And then at that
point, it's just optimizing equity and cash flow, maybe repositioning equity, that’s where you do the infinite return
thing, harvest or decide to sell or whatever it is you're going to do. But your financials all need to be rooted on that.
And then and then the more index, they are back to source documents that prove that you didn't just pull the
numbers out of your rear end, the more credible they're going to be, whether it’s a lender, whether it's equity, whether
it's you know, if your team is taught to do this, and they're bringing you financials and you're approving budgets, you
want to know where the numbers came from. So anyway, okay, so let's jump over to you can, and you ask your

question, and we'll close with this.

Ken Hosac 53:38

Yeah, we may not have time, but | was asked, | was talking about pros and cons of using kind of a local tax and CPA
services versus out of state. | never even occurred to me to go outside of my area. But and if we don't have time to do
it here, | can call later call you directly, Mike.

Russ 53:53

Well, no, no, we'll bang it out. | don’t know that it's a giant question. But, Mike, what's a you?

Mike Pine 53:59

| think, in this day and age, we most CPAs don't even use paper anymore. If if it's really important for you to meet
with your CPA in person at their office, then maybe local is important. Otherwise, | think what Russ said is building
the right team is more important than geographical location. Any and you want that team to be available to your
potential investors as well. And like as Ross as keeps mentioning the value of providing those other services, the
solutions for your team. So the advantages of going remotely is you might be able to find better expertise and area.
So you want someone that's going to be good on your team. You want someone that's going to have expertise in
what you're doing and that is experienced in it, and someone that's gonna help you look good in front of your

investors and help show them you're bringing more value to them.

Ken Hosac 54:54
Okay, I've got a great local tax guy, but he’s turning 80 And | need to fix
© Russ 55:02

Awesome. Okay, | guess we're all guys. So guys, thank you good session appreciate all that this will be up in the
platform before too long. And if you have any additional questions, you know, that came out today that we didn't get
to get them to membership and we're gonna post it up for the next edition of this. And, Mike, if you end up doing any
type of like a one on one with somebody and you think it would be a great piece of content, it isn't client
confidential, with the, with the person's permission, love to get that recorded and throw it up on the platform, or at
least components of it right? Because every one of those consultations is gold for everybody, as long as it isn't too
personal. And of course, the customer the client can be the decider on if that's the case or not. But you know, it’s not
bad to record those things anyway for their own purposes. And that way, if the recording is useful, or can be edited
out or redacted in such a way that we can use it, that would be great to the indexing. Oh, yo, Scott just said I'm game
for that. Good. Good job, Scott. Anyway, yeah, we'll continue to do that. Because the best content is just going to
come right out of the real world. So appreciate you guys out there poking around, coming with your real world
questions, keep them coming. We will continue to put experts qualified experts in front of you and do our best to pull
the brilliance out of them and capture it and put it on the platform. The content indexing project is moving forward.
So hopefully things will be easier to find before too long. But we're just going to keep keep grinding so keep going
everybody look forward to see you whenever we're gonna see you. Maybe gold's retreat is annexing coming up. But |
guess some of you are going to be at Front Sight. We'll see. | don't know. Gonna go a couple weeks. But thanks,

everybody, for being here. We'll talk to you soon.

 ) Mike Pine 56:45

Thank you, guys. Alright, see ya.
understand asset protection. And | have enough knowledge to be strategic. | don't have enough knowledge to do
anything tactically, but | have enough knowledge to be strategic. And eventually you'll get there. And when you get
there, like Dave Zook has been able to brand himself as a tax strategist to his investors. He didn't start out that way.
But because he was solving real world problems every day. And this goes back to this notion that that your job isn't
to ask, what can the capital do for you? Your job is to ask what can you do for the capital, when you go out into the
marketplace, and you find people with capital and you uncover their needs, wants desires, goals and objectives, and
then you come back into your network looking for solutions, you're either going to be able to put those solutions
together into a syndication, you're going to be able to put those solutions together in the form of a referral to a
person or a team of people that will help strengthen your relationship. Or you're going to, you're going to point to
another person who has a deal or opportunity that fits and, you know, so reef is all about you guys being able to
refer to each other, and know that it’s all kind of part of the same program, and it helps support the ecosystem. So
you know, feel free to reach out to Stephanie, or Kevin, or, Mike. You know, Stephanie and Mike are the two that are
working hand in hand. And so you can start with them. And then figure out what their path of engagement is, you
know, over the course of doing these strategy sessions, one of the things they’re identifying are pieces of content,
pieces of knowledge, that are kind of universal. And those things will become content in the platform that you can
study to bring yourself up to speed so you can have more meaningful engagements with the reason we do ask the
mentors with the attorneys and the CPAs. And all this stuff is so that when you actually go sit down with somebody,
and you're paying them for their time, you're not getting you know, you're not getting financial strategy one on one,
right, they're not sitting there explaining to you arbitrage or debt to income ratios, or any of this, | mean, they're
actually looking at the specifics of the case at hand, and trying to figure out how to solve it, and you're really
collaborating, they can't collaborate with you until you get up to a level of understanding. So you're doing great by
being on the calls, | know you're on a lot of these calls, you're asking great questions. So that’s great, | would just say
engage with them. Have them look over your personal situation, your personal portfolio, start with that. | know
you've got a young person in your life, one of the great ways to do this is just again, another way to find a unique

way to build your syndication business is to go find young people who have credit scores, and mentor them, because
they're looking for a mentor. And | know you've got your daughter, but there’s other people out there. And what you
do is you bring the capital to their credit score. And then you work through them to get to their parents who will
bring capital and when you start helping a parent, set their child free financially, you're going to get the credit from
the kid you're going to get the capital from the parent, you're probably going to get a whole lot of referrals because
now you're not Waldo, nobody's doing this or nobody's doing it on much of a scale. When Andrew Lenoy first started,
he was running around partnering capital capital with credit scores. And that was his original business. He built a
portfolio of like 100 single family homes, one home at a time, one credit score one borrower and he was just guy in
the middle, putting it all together and he got a piece of the action just for putting it all together. And pretty soon he
was, you know, | don't know if he was 10 percent owner and 100 homes, you know, then that's like owning 10 homes.
Think that's right, yeah, you know, and he got all that for his hustle. So there's a lot of creative ways to do it. Of
course, again, it’s not about how can | pull the capital into my sphere, that's going to happen as you go out and try
to solve the problem of the capital. And the more capital that you're talking to, the more exposure you get to their
needs, wants desires, goals and objectives, the faster you're going to recognize opportunities to help them solve their
problems. And when you do that, you have a real opportunity. And again, look for things that other people aren't
doing. | mean, if you everything that we do, if you look at me, as a marketer, | try to find a way to do something that
needs to be done in a way that nobody else is doing it. And all sudden, people are like, wow, this is great. I've never
seen this anywhere else. Yeah, well, partly because it’s harder, it takes more time, it takes more vision. But if you do it,
you end up with a barrier to entry, and other people have a hard time copying it, at least not easily. Like, you know,
we've cobbled together a team, a strategy team for you, you can just plug right into it. You don’t have to you can, you
can go build your own and model it after that, that's up to you. But but at least we've given you something that you
can take a look at. So | would say just plug into them and go through that process. And then find ways to monetize
your education by by sharing it with other people, and your daughter and her network of friends and all of your
friends that have kids because you know, you're like me, you're part of a community where you kind of raise your kids
together, and they're all at that age. They're all actually potential resources for you and you're not going there to
prospect you're going there to teach and add value, uncover problems, and then selling will come on the back end of

that if you're doing it properly. Okay.
open their eyes up to the idea of managing that equity proactively arbitraging that equity as we talked about to
create free investment capital, that they can continue to grow that equity while they retain the use and benefit of the
original properties. So don't be afraid of, you know, again, this going in and really helping people manage their
portfolios. You know, you're not a financial advisor or a financial planner, but you can bring you can bring strategy
strategy is such a great word | you know, I'm not a financial planner. | don't have a CFP. | don't have a charter
financial analysis. | don't have any of those things. But | was able to brand myself as a financial strategist and work
great. Of course, | had to learn what | was doing. | had to bring real value in anybody talking to me knows | can do it.
| did the same thing. Stephanie branded herself a financial strategist, mortgage company wouldn't let her call herself
that so she changed it to equity strategist. Okay. Right. So but the strategy concept is great, Dave Zook branded
himself as a tax strategist. So if you really approach people strategically, and explain to them how to use tax, how to
use equity, how to use loans to create more equity and access that through more loans, and all of that paying for it
with tax using it to purchase more tax benefits. And, and some of that money is finding its way into your deals,
because you're crafting those deals to solve the capitals needs you you have really created, you've planted a big
farm, you know, a big big farm that that those equity trees are going to continue to yield investable capital, as the
Fed does what the Fed has to do, which is purchase those mortgage backed securities and pump up the real estate
market. That's just they have to do it to support the bond market. And when you understand that it's an equity
factory, and you can tap into it to build your syndication business and tax plays a very important part of it. Also, you
know, it no longer feels like it’s a small deal. This starts to feel like kind of a big deal. And instead of you going out
there beating your head against the wall with accredited investors. And I'm not saying you shouldn't do that, you
should for sure. But you can do a lot of work with unaccredited investors helping them become accredited. And if you
do it right, | mean, think about it, if you were to go develop | Kenza, you know, a real estate developer, Jeremy in the
inner circle, right, | think about going out and building a track of homes, we Ragnar Nolasco inner circle member

does build to rent, and then selling them to a bunch of young people with their credit scores and their parents
money. And then five years from now they've got equity, and they can put that equity together and go do another
development that there now there on the equity side. So a lot of things you can do creatively when you start to think
outside the deal, and you start to think about the capital. And that's really, | think, my theme for today. | didn't start
out with a theme for today, but that's what it turned into. Okay, so | don't see any other questions there. Mike, I'm
gonna ask you. Well, let's go ahead and deal with Adams. He didn't come on to let's just go ahead and deal with

them. So | don’t have a book. You can read him.

&) Scott Florida 28:43

Russ. | did have another question. Yeah.

© Russ 28:45

Okay.

® Scott Florida 28:46

Yeah. That one, but And I'll say this, too, you know, I've been working with Stephanie for a little while now. She's
working on a bunch of rebuys for me, or with me, and having that resource available to bring other investors to, and
to have a discussion about equity and equity strategy. It’s just really rare. | mean, guys that are accredited investors
just haven't had that conversation before, that we were able to connect with Stephanie. And, man, it's just, that's a
fantastic resource. That idea financial strategy is something that | hear you talk about, but in my head, I'm like, |
need somebody like that, that | can talk to. And Stephanie has helped fill that gap. It’s huge. So that's really cool. So
my question was about so | purchased with a syndication a portfolio of homes, and | want to sell one to try to infuse

some capital back into the deal and maybe help out the the renter to get into a home. And so we do that and so |
wy KUSS 12.11

Yeah, well, | mean, that's the way consumers think, right? They just cut the cost, they don't think about making money
with debt. But right investors, especially real estate investors, it's all about making money with debt. And so
managing your borrowing power is a really important function. Now, you know, obviously, this applies primarily to
residential one to four where you're going to qualify based on your personal income and debt to income ratios. And
some of the folks listening maybe think, well, that doesn't apply to me because I’m doing commercial blah, blah,
blah, yes, but a lot of your investors are going to be tapping into equity and existing properties that they have in the
residential one to four space to free up capital, in order to put that into your syndication. In other words, they're
going to reposition the equity from their real estate, their their residential real estate for a second home small rental
property portfolio, they want to play a bigger game, they’re not playing the game you're playing, they're not yet a
syndicator, there may be never going to be a syndicator. So what they're gonna do is they're gonna continue to play
the small property game, develop equity, you know, there and then tap into that equity and then re characterize it on
their balance sheet from equity and in a property to an equity in a syndication, which sequester is it from the market
risk of the property itself. There's some benefits in that. So there's again, it goes back to this idea of arbitrage asset
protection, some of the things we talked about at the last secrets of successful syndication. So this is where even

your entity strategist, you know, Kevin De and his team, or someone like that fit into working with a lending strategist
and attack strategy. So I'm continuing to personally work on developing the strategy teams and really excited | don't
get involved in developing the strategies. It was more me just changing the paradigms getting everybody to work
together. But | want to make sure that you're you're not tuning out as you're listening to this thinking, Oh, this doesn't
apply to me. Because again, this is about you learning things that you can bring and introducing people that you can
bring value to your investors and free up capital on their balance sheet to get them into your deals and help their
help their equity work harder for them. Okay, so with all that as kind of a big backdrop, let's jump in to you, Scott,
Florida. What is your question?

Scott Florida 14:17

Well, | guess my, you brought up another question, which is, so what would it look like to connect with a strategy
team like that? How would a syndicator that wanted to have their deal reviewed or their plan reviewed? Make that
happen? What does that look like cost wise and time wise, and how would you assemble that?

Russ 14:38

So that's a great question. Mike, obviously is a CPA and he's allowed to charge for his time and does and should.
Ditto for the lawyers. Stephanie is a mortgage broker and she's not allowed to charge for her time. In fact we're that’s
a that's a flaw in the model. The regulate the regulations don't allow her to do that. And it gets frustrating to be
honest, because she'll spend a bunch of time with somebody and then they'll take all her strategy and go go do the
loan with someone else and she gets zero. So we may be splitting her off and creating a separate strategy company
where she can bill and then refer out the loan business. | don't know what that's gonna look like, but we're trying to
solve that problem. But, you know, if you understand the value that you're getting, she’s happy to do the work. And
she’s, you know, we're working on developing teams of strategist just like | developed her when she worked in my
mortgage company, and now she's extremely competent, more competent than me. She's gonna learn to develop
people also. So this thing scales, right? Everything we do is about organizing to scale. And so the hardest thing to do
and you know, we're working with Mike because Mike is single point failure, right? He's a great tax strategist, but he's
just one guy, so he knows he needs to build a team. Kevin Day knows he needs to build a team. Damien Lupo is
already doing that with a QR P side of things. Stephanie's gonna do it, Anton and the commercial side, they know
they need to do it. So if you, you know, if you engage somebody that's involved in this type of mastermind, | don't
mean to be self serving. But | mean, honestly, | don’t know where else you can go to get it. The reason | created it, is
because it didn't exist. And | knew the marketplace needed it. | know cuz | used to do it. I'm just one of these guys

that has this eclectic collection. | understand tax, | understand mortgage, | understand financial strategy, |
as a way to start deals put deals together, range lines of credit to operate your business or however you choose to
use your syndication business. Separate from that every single deal you do, whether it's a fund a blind fund, you
know, where you have discretion over the investment decisions, or it's a deal specific fund. Each one of those is going
to be its own business unit, probably in an LLC, depending on what you and your securities Council decide. And it
starts with legal entity and then you overlay the legal entity with the accounting structure. And the bones of the
accounting structure is your Chart of Accounts, and getting that put together properly based on the outputs that you
want with respect to managing the investment making good business decisions, preparing all of the relevant tax
forms for yourself and your investors. So from the tax perspective, and then it whatever other insights you may want
to provide in terms of reporting and accountability and visibility for your syndicators. Most people in the syndication
business are salespeople or deal doers. And both, both personality types tend to suck at paperwork, and and all the
details of keeping things organized. And so if you really crushed this, operationally, if you have really good
bookkeeping, really good accounting structure, really good disciplines, really good management, oversight and a
heartbeat of meeting with your, your accountant and meeting with your team. And then preparing accurate, timely
useful reports for both your management team. And for your investors. You literally have a competitive edge. And
when you marry that to tax strategy that you can bring to your investors. In other words, in the process of helping
present that the information the tax ramifications of what you're doing to them, you can also begin to open the door
of conversation into how the deal or how they're holding that their share of the deal could be structured or
restructured either in the current deal or a future deal to provide them a tax benefit or an asset protection or estate
planning benefit. When you have a broader understanding of those things and team members that you can
introduce them to so that you begin to lock in your clientele with your team. You have a huge competitive edge when
you go into the marketplace. You can present something that that other people don't have, instead of just pitching
Your deal you're pitching a total package of value. Is anybody active in real estate as most of you are, know that a lot
of times with a seller, in a competitive market, you don't have to be the high bid to get the deal, you have to be the
one who's most likely to perform. Right there, somebody can come in and sing and dance and talk a big price story.
But if they don't have great qualifications of financials, if they have a track record for walking on deals, and using
exit clauses, if they write a contract that's just laced with Get Out of Jail Free contingencies. Somebody may look at
that and go, You know what this other deal isn't as high a price, but it's a solid offer, the person's got a great track
record, they're represented by a reputable agent, guys telling me that deal is going to get done. There's not a lot of
contingency in here, besides the basic stuff that one would expect. | think they're looking to do the deal. I'm going to
go with this. And | think your bookkeeping can be that kind of competitive edge. And your team that supports you in
your in your accounting and tax strategies can be part of that competitive edge. And so | just want to set that table
a little bit, give you guys a chance to get your questions posted up in the chat. Mike, before | move on, you've been
doing this for quite a while you work with a lot of syndicators. Do you have any additional comments or thoughts on

on that opening? Little monologue there?

Mike Pine 06:23

not really | would just reinforce exactly what you said. We've seen so many syndicators come in that hery're a mess,
the books are a mess, they a lot of syndicators aren't able to get their investors or K ones until well into the summer
and early fall. And that upsets a lot of investors. So by doing by doing exactly what you said, Ross, | think it does give
you a huge competitive advantage. And it helps grow your your the perception of how good you are at what you do,
and it grows your branding a lot in the marketplace.

Russ 06:56

Yeah. Yeah. And | think | think the other thing to remember is that your credit is a valuable tool. And a lot of times
your capital contribution to a deal could be the credit worthiness that you bring. So if you're managing your your
syndication business to build strong corporate credit, and you're working hand in hand with your lending team, and
your tax team, the way Mike and Stephanie and Anton and the whole strategy team work together to manage your
Mike Pine 40:02

| have multiple Airbnbs. And | have cleaners who just sent me who just sent me an invoice with their time on it.
What's the best way to handle these in quote, employees? Well,

Russ 40:14
that's how you, buddy. Yeah, | got nothing to say on that.

Mike Pine 40:19

In 99.999% cases, they're not employees, they're contractors. So you pay them as a contractor, you need to get a W
nine for them, or they fill out and agree that they're going to pay taxes on this, and you issue them a 1099. At the end
of each year, you have your accountant, issue them a 1099? If that's the basic answer, it’s a pretty easy answer.

Russ 40:43

And then the rest of it is just charging it to the specific cost center or the specific project. If you're doing project
accounting per eight, Airbnb, each individual property, which you probably should, Yep, definitely, yeah. Because you
know, if you go to sell any one of those, what are effectively businesses, if you have all the money rolled up into one
big account, you can't really parse out the performance of a specific property and add that financial to the to the
offering document, if you will, to the to the seller's like to sell this particular property performed. And then | think the
other thing is, by keeping the book separately for each individual property, like its own little operating unit, it could
be you know, you could have it all in one entity, but just have separate Chart of Accounts, | don't know that | would
want to have it all in the entity for asset protection purposes, that's a different discussion. But the point is, you want
to be able to hand over a clean set of books, on a on an operating property, especially if it comes with a clean set of
accounts, right, the buyer can take over the whole kit and caboodle. And that that is a added feature. And it shows |
think this the buyer, that you've you've really been treating this like a business, you're not a hobbyist, Airbnb, but
you're a real pro. And that'll be important. If somewhere down the road, you decide to aggregate all these Airbnb
properties that you're managing in your own account, and decide, hey, | don't want to sell them. But I'd like to put
them all in a big pool and sell the whole pool as a syndication. And that way I'll retain 50% ownership and liquidate
half my equity. And the beautiful thing about doing an existing when you when you syndicate your own portfolio, you
already know where all the bodies are buried, you've worked out all the kinks. | mean, you have disclosures to make if
you're making a profit, and you should be. But it also makes a lot of sense because now you say okay, the most risk is
when | do a new startup, when | go find a new property, it’s in a new area, | don't know how it's going to be received, |
don't know how it's going to do | don't know about the absorption, | don't really know about the condition of the
property till it's owned it for a little while, and | see where, where some of the issues are. So I'll take all that risk with
my own capital. And then once it’s stabilized, I'll put it into this pool. And this pool will be very known very stable
performing properties. And | can present a more stable, consistent financial result to my investors. And, and yet, but |
can continually free up my own equity by by by releasing portions of my ownership in the syndication again, work
with this, this is not the legal thing. You want to work all that out with Mauricio, in terms of how you actually
effectuate that because if you're doing something that looks like you're selling secondary securities, that creates a
whole issue. Not just maybe on the tax side, but certainly on the legal side. So before you actually implement a
strategy like that, you want to sit down and map it all out with your strategy team, your technical advisors to make
sure that you know what looks good on chalkboard doesn't blow up in your face in the lab of reality. Okay, Scott's
got Florida has another questions. If there's time, there is time if Russ would just stop jabbering. Okay, you go ahead.
©) Scott Florida 43:52

So, we talked a little bit before Mike about budgeting. But could you talk a little bit about so you put your syndication
together? How would you go about budgeting, like just for reference, get 10 home portfolio, you're trying to lay out a
budget for okay, what's it gonna cost me to have this properly? CPA? What would I? How would | think about that?

© Mike Pine 44:20

You were actually creating the budget for the properties themselves.

&) Scott Florida 44:24

Yeah. And specifically that portion of it, the accounting and tracking. So, if you have a broader statement on the
budgeting piece, that'd be great. But I'm specifically looking for the accounting piece. Okay, and the tax prep and all
that, like, how do you factor that into the plan?

© Russ 44:44

Are you talking about trying to create financials that you can present to a prospective investor or lender or thinking
of how you manage

&) Scott Florida 44:55

just as I'm so that's a piece that's important too. As far as how I'm thinking about it, but I'm specifically talking about,
okay, I'm looking at this deal. And | want to make sure that | budgeted so that the K ones are done on time. And so
the quarterly payments are made when they're supposed to be made in all of that, and what what cost is there from
a CPA to help make all that happen? Does that make sense?

© Mike Pine 45:23

Yeah. Okay, so, on that side, talk to your provider. So give me a call. And let's go over it, we can give you pretty darn
good ballpark estimate on what it’s gonna cost, you're gonna have two different fees, you're gonna have recurring
accounting fees, and you're gonna have annual tax compliance cost. And we, with you, | know good enough about it,
| think we're good coming and give you a really, really close budget figure to to budget for. on budgeting for the
bigger picture size, as Russ was asking about, it is important when you're creating a budget and a cash flow forecast
to look at each year property separately to track them separately to put the expenses in there separately. If you've
been operating for a while, the best place to start off is with as your historical operations, your historical profit and
loss for those properties. You got to figure in any planned renovations, that's it’s really good also to plan for repairs
are gonna happen, they're going to be needed. And depending on what type of property it is, you can come up with
a really good industry average and standard. And | always recommend people set away certain amount for each
month's rent for the repairs, and then keep that once you get it up to the right percentage. And Russ might know
better than |am on a lot of properties, but | always recommend trying to get at least 10% away of your rents for, for
repairs. And once you pull that up, you only need a 10% reserve, you have to do 10% a month for 10 years, use 10% a
month, until you've got enough in reserve for those kinds of things. And go over each line by line item and think
November 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on
Accounting and T...

@ Thu, 11/48:19AM @ 56:48

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

tax, deal, equity, investors, syndication, people, strategy, property, mike, stephanie, capital, business, team, accounting,

question, financial, portfolio, strategist, create, working

SPEAKERS

Ken Hosac, Russ, Scott Florida, Mike Pine

Russ 00:01

Okay syndication mentoring club it is our November ask the mentors and November 2021. And this one is
bookkeeping accounting tax with Mike pine, our mentor. I'm going to turned my phone off here. So if you guys
haven't done that, that'd be great. If you're not speaking, keep muted. We did have a couple of questions come in. |

don't see Adam on the call. So, Mike, you can't see the roster. But we had other questions besides Adam's, right.

Mike Pine 00:34

There's two from Adam, the first

Russ 00:36

two from Adam. Okay, then then let's give him a moment to show up and let him ask his question. Before we answer
it. So the topic today is is bookkeeping, no not bookkeeping. | always think because accounting starts with the
bookkeeping. But accounting and tax and there's two different components of it. So we got some new members. Yay.
So glad you guys are here. First of all, so So Mike pine is our is our kind of highly engaged mentor. In regard to being
involved in these ask the mentors calls. We obviously have had a relationship with Tom wheelwright and wealth
ability in that network for a long, long time. And so both people exist in our, our ecosystem, Mike makes himself
available to do these calls and answer your questions, which is great. He's got a background specializing in working
with syndicators. And he’s the man he works directly with everybody. So when you look at your syndication business,
you've got a couple of things, you've got your personal books, which need to be in good order, so that you can take
care of your personal finances and make good personal decisions about your personal portfolio. And as you learned
from the asset protection event we did the other night with Kevin Day, that your personal stuff is separate from your
syndication stuff. And your syndication business is broken into a couple of components. One is the business of
syndicating. That's your management company, that’s a company through which you run your expenses that you
collect your fees. And so you don't have a whole lot of accountability with respect to your investors in your
accounting there, that's for you and your benefit. Although it's a good idea to have your books in good order. That's
how you're going to build your business credit profile and be able to utilize that separately from your personal credit,
Scott Florida 21:42

Make sense? It sounds like if | just reach out to them, and | would just need to assemble like, hey this is the time can

you guys make it and make it happen that way would be

Russ 21:51

best? Yeah. Mike, what is the process right now? | know what Stephanie she's got a Calendly. And | think you know,
you get her cash out report cash out at real estate guys. radio.com. And that's just her primer on how to how to
understand the cash out refinance game. She's very good at it. Yeah. And then and then you work with her and Mike,
and they work on your DTls. And then timing your qualifications based on taxing This is about being very proactive. |
mean, Mike, can you talk to that a little bit, because it's a lot different right mode. Tom wheelwright says all the time,
you want to change your tax, you got to change your facts, and nothing worse for a CPA, then you showing up on,
you know, February 10, for your April 15 tax return with all everything you did the previous year, there's no time to do
anything where you want to be thinking about the tax, you're going to pay two years from now today and setting the
table for that. And | know Mike, you get involved in some advanced planning, you talk a little bit about how you work

with clients, and maybe how the best way for, for folks to engage with you from your side of it.

Mike Pine 22:52

Absolutely. And Scott, you can just if you want, | can just send an email to Stephanie and she'll send out the link. So
we can go ahead and set up a meeting if you'd like. Being proactive versus reactive, the difference between being a
victim of tax income tax versus utilizing the tax code and the incentives in the tax code to generate net wealth and
find financial freedom. So you have to be proactive with our clients. And some of you are we we work with you
throughout the year to try to mitigate your taxes and plan for opportunities, we try to understand what you got going
on not just this year, but next year in the year after. And we do our best to come up with strategies that if you take
action and you follow those strategies, it will help ultimately reduce your tax burden and allow you to to grow
financially, much faster than if you don't. And when same thing with the financing and working with Stephanie is
we're working, she’s working with clients that want to they know in two and three years, they're wanting to buy
multiple properties. So we're working on their returns now. And again, some of them were increasing the income and
the taxable income, but it's for a purpose, it’s for the last strategy that you have planned out. So again, being
proactive with taxes is super, super important. And it really does make the difference between utilizing the tax code

for your benefit to generate your future net worth versus being a victim of taxes and overpaying Uncle Sam.

Russ 24:31

So let me jump in and talk a little bit about the idea of planting the back 40. Right because it's going to be 10 years
from now 10 years from now whether you do anything or not. But if you're thinking ahead, if you're planning ahead,
then what you can begin to do is, is think about how the seeds you're planting today. So for example, let's just say
that you went out to my prior example, and you helped a lot of young people get into real estate. Five years from
now, what are they going to have? Starts with an E we wrote To book about it, they're gonna have equity. Okay, and
when they have equity and they're they're part of an ongoing strategy, you know where you're revisiting and kind of
mentoring them along, then at that point, maybe they're ready to start investing in syndication. So you're basically
planting a harvest for down the road using residential one to four, using the cheapest money available, the safest
money available. Helping people use debt in an obviously inflationary economy. And they can capture that capture

that equity wave, as long as the cash flows are handled prudently, they're gonna have equity and down the road, you
about hey, so this is what's been historically. And what else might change that, and put that in your budget. And
also, it's good to have a cash flow forecast as well, because that's going to help you communicate with your investors
that what they can expect for distributions. And | always say under promise and over deliver on that. So if you can, if
you if they're expecting a specific distribution, and let's say $5,000 A quarter, and you should come up with six and a
half grand a quarter, it's going to feel huge guilt. Huge, huge goodwill. So that's kind of the basics. And I'd be happy

to walk you through some of that on a more detailed granular level.

® Scott Florida 47:50

That's really helpful that in so going back to the other the accounting piece, | know we can do that in detail, but you
have any rules of thumb, like you gave for the 10%. That was really helpful. I’m just like, | definitely want to sit down

with you. But your lot cheaper right now.

© Mike Pine 48:07

You got me for free? Um, yeah. So it depends on the size and complexity of each project. So you can't come up with
just a flat percentage for accounting and tax services. But generally, you're looking at a few $100 per month for
accounting, or individual single family housing. And for taxes, you're generally looking at 2500, depending on how
many investors you have 2500 to 3500. Assuming you're operating in one or two states, the more states you add, the

more it goes up. Great, you get an address.

© Russ 48:47

Okay. | can have a question. I'm going to try to sneak in just a quick comment, and then I'll flip it over and what
that'll probably end up wrapping up this session, because | definitely have a hard stop at the top of the hour, even
though | was the one that was a little late. Sorry about that. | do think that excuse me, | do think that doing the
doing a budget and learning how to do a budget well is really, really important. And | had kind of alluded to this. And
if you can find a vintage copy of equity happens. You'll see that in the chapter. | think it's | think chapter nine positive
cash flow sucks, if which it doesn't, but it was a paradigm breaker. The point is, is that equity is a lot more powerful
than cash flow. Cash Flow produces equity. But when you produce financial statements, when you look at cash flow,
you look at them for three different reasons. You look at what you're going to show your tax guy, which you're going
to show your lender, and then what you're going to manage by and they're all the same data so you're not lying
about the data or fudging the data. It’s just how you present it. And then when you're actually doing a project and
you put together a budget, you have to know the difference between a p&l and a cash flow statement Mike
mentioned it Not everybody who is here has business or finance background, and they don't understand the
difference. But especially if you're doing a p&l on accrual basis, which | personally hate, but there’s some advantages
to doing it. Because you can literally show that you're profitable, and have zero cash in the bank and be overdrawn.
And I've I've had that happen, I've seen it happen, I've seen it ruin businesses, because people don’t know the
difference in cash flow and profit and loss. So | always managed by cash flow. And | like to use cash basis whenever |
can. But the the point there is, is that when you go through the lifecycle of a deal, especially one that is some type of
a rehab, or something where there's a ramp up, as we talked in how to fund an idea, so if you haven't seen the video
we did on how to fund an idea, go back and look at that. But the first phase is, I've got to go from startup to MVP, I'm
going to have to make capital investments to acquire the property to get it built up to get it to the point where it can
start to generate revenue. At MVP, once it starts to generate revenue, I've got to get it from MVP, where it’s
generating revenue to critical mass where it's generating positive cash flow, because now it's self sustaining, this
baby can breathe on its own. And so the cash flow analysis is most important there because it can show you how
you're drawing down on cash reserves where you're you're printing negative cash flow, even though you got revenue,

you got greater expenses, and then eventually you're going to cross over now you're going to have positive cash flow,
bring money back into the deal through the sale of that one home. So I've reduced the portfolio little a little bit, but
we brought some cash back in, what are the options of how you deal with that money? Does that need to be dealt
with tax wise and distributed right away? Or what are the options for dealing with that money?

Mike Pine 30:14

There's a few options. One option, if, if you don't have enough depreciation, depreciation that year for loss to
generate, to offset any gain that you would recognize on selling that property, you might want to consider a 1031
exchange, you can do it within the syndication. 1031 Exchange, defers any gain out and there's, they still exist, and
they're probably still going to exist, even after this new tax laws passed, at least for most people. Another option is
you do sell it, and whatever the gain is, the majority that gains is going to be capital gain that gets allocated
amongst your investors. But not the whole part. Just part whatever the game is. And on that game you can come up
with, people usually use 35%, if it’s not capital gain or 20% of its capital going to a tax distribution, so that your
investors are able to pay for the tax on it. But you can keep the rest of the cash in there. And depending on what
your plans are, what you're trying to do for your investors, you can deploy it to to grow the portfolio back up again, or
maybe even upgrade the portfolio a little bit. So those are the main obligations, the tax implications, if you don't do
1031, and you do sell that, again, you're gonna have a game that gets allocated and pushed back down to your
investors. So you should do at least a tax distribution to keep them happy enough to help them pay the taxes on that

game that they're going to get.

Russ 31:41

Or put them in another deal that gives them an offsetting tax break. So you know, remember, when you look at one
deal, it's like playing Whack a Mole. And you look at a deal, you go, if | do this deal, I'm gonna get a tax, you know,
hit, okay, well, you just went from turning an opportunity into a problem, right, | got an opportunity to realize a profit,
but that's going to create a problem of tax, but problem also creates a new opportunity. So don't forget to follow it
all the way through. Don't just stop with the problem, but try to figure out okay, well, now what do we do? Because a
tax problem is, you know, a lot of times will get you into a deal. So if you pre create a tax problem, by profit in deal a,
then you've created a tax solving opportunity and investment B makes sense. And that way, you keep the thing
rolling, and again, you position yourself with more than the relationship being about a deal. It's like you're going to
own their problem, you're going to you know, you're going to turn every problem into an opportunity. And when that
opportunity is realized, then it becomes a new problem. And you're just going to take that on and start the process
all over again and keep it going. Keep the rally going. Okay, good. All right. So uh, alright, so let’s just handle Adams
questions real quick there, Mike, you're gonna have to read them because | didn't find them.

Mike Pine 33:06

Okay, so Adams first question was, I'm currently using Mike pine to amend my 2020 taxes. But recently, I've begun
talking with wealth ability. And I'm not sure what company | should go with, or the benefits of one or the other half,
this might be a pretty generic question. But I'm doing the asset protection through Kevin Day and just want to better
understand better understanding recommendation of what you would do. So | think whenever | have not used wealth
ability, I've got clients that have used wealth ability, but | don't know a lot about their process. | think maybe Russ,
you can answer that a little bit better. I'm working with me, I've got a team that's focused almost solely on real estate
real estate syndications real estate tax. | think our fees are probably a little bit lower in Russia, you could also confirm
that, but | mean, there’s as long as you have a good tax advisor, and as long as it's a they're proactively helping you
do your business and do and accomplish your goals, then you don't have to work with me, you don’t have to work
with wealth ability, you just have to find a good tax planning partner. Anything to add to that? Ross?
taxes and time your taxes, you may decide when your Hey, I'm going to pay a lot of tax for a year or two, in order to
build a credit profile that is going to help me be able to bring a lot of value to the next deal. And the tax that | have
to pay to make that happen might be able to be recaptured later, if | amended return or pick up some type of a
deduction that would would offset past year's liabilities or however that works out. It but but whatever hard dollar
cost you actually put in, if you don't look at it in terms of hey, it's tax, | just got to write that off. And it’s a loss. But
instead, it's an investment in access to credit. And that credit I'm going to make a ton of money on now it's just, it’s
just the form of any other expense that you have, if | have to go pay a contractor or an architect or whatever to do
some piece of work, | don't consider that throw away money, that's money that | invested in being able to advance
my deal. A lot of times people don't look at paying tax that way. But when you marry paying tax to the benefit of
having strong financials for borrowing, and you're looking at the value that that access to credit can be for you, and
the money you're gonna make on it. It takes the sting out of paying that | hate paying tax, because | hate throwing
away money and get nothing in return. And you know, you can, | mean, we all have our personal opinions about the
efficacy of government, I'm not a fan. | personally rather see all the money go to the private sector and let the
private sector figure it out. | think they operate more effectively, probably about 98% of the time, it’s only a few
things that | think the government is really well qualified to do well. But be that as it may, it doesn't matter. Because
at the end of the day, we're under this tax code, and we have to pay. And so if we're going to do that, then at least
we want to make sure that we do it in such a way that we do get some benefit that we have control over and one of
the ways to do that is to time your payment of tax with the the availability or the access to credit. So remember that
you want to integrate your, your tax strategist in with your lending strategist. So that you're you're putting the two
disciplines working hand in hand. And so, Mike, I'm going to toss back to you before we jump over to Scott's question.
| know you've been you do the weekly or every other weekly calls with the strategy team. Can you just give us a quick
update on maybe that, and some of the things that you've seen or some of the benefits of doing that in the real
world because | know it's opened your eyes a little bit it certainly opened the lending teams eyes, and | think it's kind
of a unique, a unique way of approaching the problem and I'm excited to hear where it's at.

Mike Pine 09:54

It's it's incredibly it's created a huge paradigm shift for me. Unlike you, Ross, | hate to see people paying taxes, it
drives me nuts when they don't have to. And in a lot of cases, they don't have to. But what I've learned by working
with Stephanie, the equity strategist, that a lot of the things we want to do for taxes aren't good for lending. And by
working together and having the strategy sessions with real estate guys, syndicator members, we've we've found
ways where you can still have your cake and eat it too. One of the big things we've learned that startup cost you
have on new properties, we've always people have expensed them as repairs and maintenance. They just thought of
them as an expense. assets that are worth $2,500 or less, but tax allows us just to expense it and that during the
appreciation. But you can also capitalize them and bonus depreciate them out and suddenly moved the expense
lines from an expense that a lender won't add back, when they're figuring out your debt to income ratio. You just you
move it to depreciation, they add all of that back, it's been made a huge difference, a huge difference. We've had
some clients, we've worked with her where we've actually increased their their income by 80, or 90%, just by that one
single different treatment. And there's other items that I've learned from Stephanie like that. So | think it’s super
important that you have your tax strategist, work with your lending strategy, your equity strategist, because it can
make a huge, huge difference. And there are times when we have shared clients that they need to improve their
lendability a little bit. So we don’t take we aren't as aggressive on the deductions as | would like to be. But it’s
allowed them to get access to more capital. And just like you said, Ross, well, we can go back and we're planning on
going back on some of these. And amending those tax returns after lending happens, after they get the capital to
play that. So it’s it's hugely important. And | never realized that I've been working against blendability for so many
years for our clients just by focusing on the tax dollars and the ease of filling out a tax return. By doing it in a smart,

strategic way and working with a lender and strategist, it’s made a large difference.

i es Aay.414
