JO

JO

that's one of the this tool is used for that purpose. And if that's the purpose, then then | think this new rule would
would definitely help you and would eliminate the need to do that. But as Russ mentioned, there's other reasons
people put together sub syndications and fund to funds one may be the experience, they want to get their feet wet
with syndication, they want to go through the process, this is a good first step, get my entryway. So doing this the
fund to fund make sense. And to there's also, you know, people raise funds to then place in multiple funds. So they
actually want to manage the money kind of a Warren Buffett, | mean, Warren Buffett's not going to start putting
money into serious candy, you just get a referral fee. And there you have the business, | mean, there's a difference
between just getting a transaction just to get paid a few bucks versus actually having a real business. And with a
fund of funds, you can go raise $100 million, or $20 million, or $10 million. And now you have now you can select, you
can now start interviewing different operators and saying, Well, I'm going to put 10% of my fund into your deal. I'm

going to put 12% over here. And you can actually be sort of the money person and have a real business. | thought
the

33:21

timeline was closer than you seem to indicate. What's the timeline for that? No,

Mauricio 33:27

that's not in fact, you know, this will be not to get too political, because Russ doesn't like to get political. But there
was an announcement just yesterday, maybe this is the one update Russ from the last from the last weekend. But the
commissioner of the SEC Commissioner indicated that he was going to step down at the end of this year to allow
Biden to elect a new commissioner, because the commissioners is already up and | think in the middle of next year,
so who knows who the new commissioner is going to be, and maybe they have a completely different direction they
want to go and this may all be like, you know, forget it. But this is literally just started. So this was literally a press
release, essentially, that's all we have is a press release. And so from the press release, you're going to go toa
proposed rule probably sometime in the first quarter of next year. And then whatever ends up being the final rule,
assuming assuming we even have a final rule, that’s not going to be probably until the fourth quarter of next year. So
we're about a year out for this actually materializing.

34:24
Thank you, sir.

Russ 34:26

So let me Excuse me, let me jump in on a couple of points there. And this kind of is going to segue into Scott's
question that he posted in the chat. And for those of you that have questions, it’s really great if you just throw them
up in the chat, because that way, | can see that they're out there and we can, you know, maybe curtail some of our
conversations when we could go deeper to try to make sure we get everything covered. But with that said, | think one
of the things a lot of these things tend to be complex or feel complex and your head might be spinning. When you're
new, and what | had to learn to do, and it’s just always been my practice is just | take whatever the problem is, and |
parse it into components. So when you're looking at the sub syndication thing, you know, obviously, you have to look
at things through the investor side. And you have to look at it from there from the risk management side, because
those people who are your investors could one day be your plaintiffs. And so you have to think about it that way. And
then you also have to think about it from the marketing side, what what can | sell them what what is actually
marketable, and then you look at the deal itself. And you have to start asking yourself, you know, where the
first. And then and then we open it up afterwards. So if you ended up getting some stimulation here, and you've got
some questions that popped up that we didn't get to write them down now, and then bring them forward to the next

one. And we'll cover them down. Okay, any closing words there, Mr. Counselor?

© Mauricio 57:21

Nope. | think that's it. Appreciate you guys taking the time.

© Russ 57:24

Okay, everybody, appreciate it. We'll see you next time. Thanks, guys.

&) Scott Florida 57:28

And I'll see you guys take care. Thanks.
© Russ 47:44

point? Well, you would because you're a lawyer, | would hire a Florida securities attorney to help me, | wouldn't check
and check it interpret, | would hire a lawyer to do that. But | get what you're saying you have to get it, you have to
get your your authority from the source and the source ultimately is the state. But | would go through an attorney to
get that authoritative opinion that you can rely on that comes with any no policy, in case the lawyer gets it wrong.

And that's why you

© Mauricio 48:09

wouldn't go through | mean, | will help you through it. But it’s not going to be me. | mean, you're going to have to,
you're going to want to rely on an attorney that specializes in the investment advisory act and making sure that, you
know, they're familiar with all those rules. And so yes, 100%. You know, from an equity standpoint, obviously, the the,
the entity would be created a syndication entity that's owning the property would be created in the state where the
property is located. So we would create a Texas LLC, because that's where the property is located. That's where the
business is happening. And then, of course, the form even though there's no, this is all federally exempt. And so we
don't have to file anything, we don't have to register the syndication with the feds, we do have to provide the states
with notice and that that state will be the states where the investors are located. So if you have an investor in
Indiana, and Indiana, | believe happens to be one of the more how should we put it. PETA states that if you don't
comply really closely with their with everyone's statue, which is basically filing a copy of a form D, within 15 days of
your first sale in Indiana, then they're going to come after you for I'm gonna make a lot of noise. But at the end of the
day, they're gonna come after you for some extra dough. And you're gonna spend a lot of money on lawyers
responding to letters and all that stuff. But But and then of course, and then the the caveat with all of this is there
are some exemptions that do not that rely that don't have the preemption. So there are rules out there that you can
rely on, that will require you to go hire an attorney in every state that you sell into. So if you're selling into Indiana,
you will have to go hire an Indiana securities lawyer and if you've got somebody else in Florida, you'd have to, you'd
have to go hire a Florida securities attorney, if you're relying on some of these exemptions that that don't have that
preemption, which is why we tend to avoid those because that's a lot of time and expense to go do.

© Russ 49:58

Okay, so, one kind of last question in that same realm is when we put together these operating agreements, and
typically we're going to put in a mandatory mediation a mandatory arbitration clause, and we're going to establish
jurisdiction if we have a multi jurisdiction deal where our company is where the investor is where the deal is, how
much discretion do we have, or how much control | mean, | know that anybody on the other side can always, you
know, | think petition or whatever the word is for a change of venue, so they can put it where they want to put it. But
let's say you have a particular place you want to put it, you know, is there one of those three scenarios assuming that
the deal you and the investor in three different places, that tends to be harder for folks to move? In other words?
Yeah,

ro ) Mauricio 50:51

you know, that's I'm not necessarily a, you know, a contracts attorney. But it does help if the if the operating
agreement does have, you know, a particular jurisdiction that it mentions in terms of where what law applies, but

that doesn't mean automatically, that's where the law is going to apply. So typically, the jurisdiction that's going to
apply is either the state where the defendant resides. So if they're suing the Texas LLC, then that's they'd have to file
something in Texas, because that's a Texas LLC. If they're coming after you personally, or maybe your management
company that happens to be in Florida, then you could file it in Florida.

© Russ 51:28

But wouldn't you your management company, if you're doing a deal in Texas, would you be registered to do business?
Or if Is it good enough that the holding entity, the the operating entity that holds the deal is registered in your law,
typically

© Mauricio 51:40

only the only the LLC that owns the property that would definitely be either set up in that in that jurisdiction? Or if it's
set up somewhere else you would register it to? Like in the Texas example, even if you created something in Nevada,
or Wyoming, you would have to register that LLC to do business in Texas? Because that's where the asset is located.
The management company, it just depends on where again, where are you physically located when you're making all
the decisions? So if you're, if you're spending a lot of time down in Dallas and flying in Texas, flying down to Texas
and making decisions in Texas, and but that it also depends on the state like Texas is pretty laid back. They're not
they're not California, right? In California, you look in their direction, and you're doing business in California, Texas is
not that strict. | mean, you can actually open a bank account in in Texas, and they won't consider you doing

business. But if you even look in the direction of California, you're doing business in California? Yeah, the jurisdiction.

© Russ 52:31

So we avoid California at all costs. So we've I've got a hard stop at top of the hour. And we've got six minutes left.
Scott, you had a question related to legal structure moving from portfolio to deal one state to another multiple

states? Did we already cover all of your question? Or is there more in there that you wanted to ask about?

® Scott Florida 52:53

Well, just clarifying. So if I've got 10 homes in Tennessee, and | got 10 homes in Arizona? | do | have to have to LLCs
with those two different states. How does that work? Do you bring extra costs in when you start expanding your
offering outside of one location, particularly one state

ro ) Mauricio 53:18

wasn't clear if you if this is an offering that you have 10, or this is your own personal portfolio that you have 10 that
you in addition to an offering?

© Scott Florida 53:25

I'm talking about trying to create an offering. So like, for example, | want to put something out, and | find 10 homes in
Memphis, and | find 10 homes in the Phoenix and put that package together to be one offering. Yep. So what are the
what are the changes in the costs and legal structures and stuff, so that
&) Scott Florida 15:39

So when it comes to the capital that you raise at the beginning, whether it’s a blind fund or just a regular deal
focused fund, that money that you're raising at the beginning, that goes into obviously goes into an account, but is
there a expectation of a return? Or do you have to spell out an expectation of return? | mean, especially when you're
when it’s related to the blind fund, but even in a regular deal focused fund? Do you have to write something into the
plan that details out how that money is going to return? Or what it's going to return? Or if it’s going to return?

o ) Mauricio 16:20

Yeah, great question. In a, in a blind fund, that’s an issue. Because if you're sitting on money in a bank account, then
the question is, do you want to give them some small return while it's sitting there? Do you just tell them, hey, we'll
make it up to you on the back end, if it takes a while, that's, that's something you would spell out in a blind Fund,
with a project specific most of the time, you're getting a percentage of the income, right percentage of the net cash
flow. So until net cash flow comes in, the investor is not going to be entitled to anything anyway. So it’s only until the
first money's come in, and there's actually cash to distribute, that’s when you start getting 80% of the investors or a
preferred return or whatever your structure is, you don’t have that issue. But with a blind fund, it is an issue, you may
be sitting on a million dollars in the bank. And after six months goes by, now what, but it gets addressed in the docks,
and it's part of your structure. And before you get too caught up in the docks, just like like Russ said, step back and
figure out what's the business, what's the game plan that you're going to do. And then we can articulate that to the

investors in the documents the way you want it done,

© Russ 17:24

you're always going to be balancing the legal and administrative side and the risk management side against the
marketing side and customer satisfaction side. You know, so it’s just a constant thing, what I'll tell you the one thing
you can't do, you can't take that bunch of money and then earn some type of interest on it. And then you know,
collect that for your own account, right, you can't make money on their money, at least not undisclosed. So and you
have a responsibility, wnen you have money in your possession to steward it to your the best of your ability, if it's
possible for you to get a relative risk free return versus no return, you should probably do that. And whatever return
you earn goes to them. And of course, in a low yield environment that we're in today, that's not easy to do. But there
are going to be times in your career maybe where interest rates are higher, or there are vehicles that you could put
the put the liquid capital in, that would yield a return, you may come up with a philosophy going back to what we
were talking about having an investment strategy, that you disclose in your document, you say, hey, when we're not
invested in a particular project, we will be parking the capital in an allocation of different currencies or precious
metals, and, and, and cash and bank or we may have it in, you know, bonds, you know, we may use 30 Day treasuries
to get a little bit of a yield that’s basically risk free. So they're strategies you can do to try to create a yield on cash.
And, you know, we always assume that everybody has to have their money working all the time. But the fact of the
matter is, if you're going to leave the money with the investor, you know, the question I'm going to ask them is, you
know, Mister investor, when well, this cash is waiting for me to find a home for it, what are you going to do with it?
And if it’s just going to be sitting there doing nothing, that you're not competing with what they might do, you're
competing with what they plan to do. And if they're just going to leave it in the bank getting nothing, you say, Well,
you know, | can pull it together. And | could roll it in 30 day treasuries, which is good enough liquidity for my
purposes, because | probably won't be in a situation where | need cash faster than 30 days, and | can put your cash
to work and maybe that administratively would be too much hassle for you. But if you intend other investors do it
and | managing a $10 million or $5 million fund, it’s, it's okay for me to do it. And I'm happy to do it because what
that gives me is certainty that | have the liquidity | need when | find the deal I’m looking for what it gives you is a
Mauricio 24:08

Well, | think the first thing that the last thing you said would be a red flag. | mean, if you're going to be investing in
somebody else's fund, right and somebody else's syndication, then your primary obligation is, is to do the due
diligence on the sponsor, right. And, you know, that's probably step number one, that's actually what you're getting
paid for. So just to be clear, a sub syndication, sometimes we call it a fund of funds, where you're raising capital into
your fund pursuant to some exemption 506 B 560. You're doing that raising the capital legally, that’s no different

than raising it for the blind fun. Again, it's the raising the money. In this particular case, instead of instead of buying a
piece of property with that money, you're doing a blind fun, you are going to be buying essentially limited
partnership interest in a sub thumb and in somebody else's deal. So you're actually buying securities which is which
will which I'll talk about a second. But instead of buying real estate, we're no longer buying real estate, we're buying
securities, we're buying shares in somebody else's company, you're getting compensated, at least for three different
things. One is the due diligence. And it's not just the due diligence on the actual investment, but obviously, the due
diligence on the sponsor. So you've got to make sure that you're doing a bang up job there. So to the extent they
have a deal, somewhere it most subs indicators will get on a plane, maybe not these days, but they'll get on a plane
and travel down and actually observe the operations and do the due diligence. Again, your investors are busy
people, that's what that's what your force is to do all that heavy lifting, I'm a busy professional, | don't have time to
get on a plane, | don't have time to vet the sponsors, go meet with them meet their operations and meet the deal. So
that's number one. The next thing you're getting paid for. Oftentimes, when you're doing a sub syndication, you're
coming in with relatively a large amount of money. Even if you're not raising a particularly large amount, let's just say
you're raising a million dollars, most of the investors probably in the fund that you're investing in are putting in 50,
grand or 100 grand. And so you're coming in with a million dollars. And that's you get the benefits of that power of
the group concept. And you're typically able to negotiate better deals, because one of the things you got to be
aware of is like, Well, why would somebody invest in your fund, that's just gonna turn around and invested in the
other person's fun, why don't | just skip you, and go straight to the other person, right. So you've got to have that as a
as a, as something to talk to the investor about one of the things you can do his again, negotiate better terms. So
maybe the general public goes to this or not the general public, but the investor goes into this other deal. And they're
getting, I'm making this up, but they're making 8% pref or something, or they're getting an 8% return. But because
you're coming in with a lot of money, this indicator down there says I'll give you 9% or 10%. Or I'll give you some
other benefits that generates more return for your fund, which in turn allows you to get compensated but also may
allow your investors to get a little bit better deal because they went through you. And then there's a lot of instances
where the the deals fantastic, but the minimums are high, you know, maybe this is a really great deal. But the
minimum is $250,000. And so the regular investor doesn't have 250, or doesn't want to put 250, your particular fund
may only have a $50,000 minimum, which now allows me to get into this deal that | otherwise wouldn't get. That's all
the value add things that you are doing on your end, that's what you're getting paid for. So those are the things
you've got to really focus on to make sure you're limiting your your exposure, but But honestly, you can only look if
the if the main deal goes south, you're probably going to be in a world of hurt anyway, because you're making the
decision to invest with the sponsor in this deal. And if it goes out, they're gonna look to you, you know, why didn't you
do a better job, vetting the deal and vetting the sponsor. And then just real quick, just, | would just want to touch it, |
don't wanna get too too in the weeds. But because you're buying shares in a company are most likely, you know,
membership units in an LLC, but it’s not a stock that makes you an investment advisor from from a legal perspective,
you now are actually advising people even though you don't think of advising, you're telling your investors that we're
going to go invest in a security, which makes you an investment advisor, which means you just have to look at
whatever state you reside in what state are you in John, Florida, Florida. So you | have no idea what the rules are in
Florida, but we can easily find out what the what the rules are in Florida that would exempt you from having to
register as an investment advisor, which is probably not what you want to do, you don't want to register and become,
you know, subject to all those regulations. So every state has it has exemptions. Some of them are really easy and
not a big deal. Others will put some limitations on what you can and cannot do and you're at your at your end. For
example, the most common one is you may be limited to accredited investors only. If you're going to do some kind of
a sub syndication depending on the state you're in.
because that'll bode well for funding, it'll bode well for insurance, it'll bode well for raising money, you start to build
your resume before you build your business, you got to build your brand and build your network, at least that’s what
I've heard. So once once you kind of understand that basic concept, then let's say you do decide to do a blind fund,
then from a marketing perspective, and | know this isn't about marketing, but | can’t help myself because that's
where | live. You have to understand from resales point exactly what it is you're selling. And you're selling an
investment philosophy and investment strategy and an investment team, including yourself. And you have to ask
yourself based on your current resume and current team, are you strong or weak in that area, because again, this is
not a business of doing a bunch of transactions, you're here to build a business. And building a business is about
building a brand, building a team building a network, and then you do transactions. And you you, you build those by
doing transactions. So you're strategic with every transaction you do in the beginning, as it’s playing a piece and
building all of that out. Once you get it all built, then you can do a lot of different things. The challenge that | see a
lot of young syndicators do is they try to jump in, you know, further down the line, then they're really there and they
don't lay a proper foundation. And then they find it very hard to market to get loans to get insurance to be able to
even execute because they don't have the skill set. And they put themselves behind the eight ball. So if you do it
right, | think you can eventually get to a blind fund. | think that's the ultimate destination. | you know, personally,
because now you have all kinds of discretion. This is like a Warren Buffett, nobody asks Warren Buffett what he's
going to do with their money, they trust Him, they give him his, they give him their money. And they know he's going
to do what he does, because he's got a long history of doing it. But but you know, last time | looked, you're not
Warren Buffett yet. So | think that, you know, just understand that where you're at each of you probably many of you
watching this in your career are at that place where you're just trying to get that that brand built, you got to get that
team built, you've got to get that investment philosophy really clear. And then what | teach in sales, How to Win
funds and influence people is important. And | talked about this with a little orange with the the apple with the
orange zipper on it. The idea that you want to make sure you match your investment philosophy for your fund what
your investment objective is, with the investment philosophy or investment objective of the individual investors you
put into that fund. So not only do you have to be good at articulating what it is that you plan to do, but you have to
be really good at uncovering from them what it is they want. And most people are not going to be that clear. And
you don't you're not a financial planner, you're not in visor, you're going to step into a little bit more of that role.
When you are managing a blind fund because people don't know what you're going to do. You have to make really
sure they're clear about what it is you intend to do and how it matches to them. And that comes to this other
question which circles back to legality. And that suitability Murray CEO talk this weekend about fiduciary, which is a
responsibility to put the investor interests above your own, always do what's in the best interest of the fund of the
investors. And the second one is suitability, which means you don't put anybody into anything that isn't suitable for
them based on their ability to take risk based on their level of sophistication based on their investment objectives. So
you do have quite a bit of responsibility that you need to get up to speed on and all the components of that are in
our program. You learn how to do it all but you got to kind of learn to crawl before you can walk and you need to
learn to walk before you can So any closing thoughts on that? Topic resume,

© Mauricio 15:03

| just want to echo echo what you said that it’s much harder. Clearly, | mean, Mike, just in my experience, it’s much
harder to raise money for a blind pool. So you typically don't start there. If this is your first indication, blind pool is
not the way to go. The way to go is either a, either a sub syndication as you may, or maybe you syndicate one of
your own deals, you know, when your own property, something easy like that, but you know, it’s great to have money
in the bank. But that’s not where you're going to start.

© Russ 15:27

Great. Now, before we move on to a new topic, does anybody have any questions or comments about this topic? Go
Going once.
that's been presented. Basically, when we talk in the very first segment that | do about the essentials of syndication,
or fundamentals of syndication, one of the things we're talking about is the decisions you have to make whether you
want to syndicate an individual project, so you've pre identified what you're going to do. And then you underwrite
that and present it to people, or you're going to do what's called a blind fund, where you're going to raise money.
And then you're going to make investment decisions after the fact based presumably, on some form of investment
objective so that people kind of know what they're getting into. But you're you're not constrained. The pros of doing
the former are that some of the risk, and I'm sure Maria will comment on this. It reduces some of your risk, because
people are not just vetting you as a manager. But they're also vetting the deal. They go in with their eyes wide open.
If the if the project fails for whatever reason, or has troubles or underperforms, at least they had the chance to know
what they were getting. Some of your professional judgment may be called into question, but not as much. The other
side of it is with a with a blind fund and you got a pile of cash sitting there, you can move a lot quicker, because you
don't have to worry, you know, you might make decisions, if you like the deal to be able to go in with lots of cash or
go hard and not worry about your ability or inability to raise money and hit certain time marks. The dark side is is
that if the deal goes south, then potentially your investors could definitely call into question your professional
judgment, not just your ability to execute on a business plan. So those are kind of the pros and cons and the basic

differences. But now I'll let Mauricio get a little bit more into the weeds.

Mauricio 04:10

Yeah, we Yeah, like you said, when the student is ready, the teacher appears. | think we also have a video on this,
which if we don't we should have it on the platform rather than specifically on on the fund issue in addition to the
syndication seminar. So let's take it from the original question, which is really on the legal side. The same rules and
regulations apply whether you're raising money for project specific, which is what Russ was talking about initially, or
blind fund, or anything. | mean, remember a lot of people are raising money for other non real estate stuff. So no
matter what you're putting the money to do, the act of raising the capital, that's where the regulations come in.
What you do with the capital is a separate question, but the raising of the capital initially, that's where we go
through the analysis of, you know, do you register it? Do you find an exemption |s it illegal and we go through alll
these exemptions, so the exact same exemptions are going to fly. The main difference, though, so you're gonna see
very similar paperwork, there's obviously going to be some risk disclosures that are going to be unique to a blind pool
offering. And | would probably recommend, because of what Russ mentioned, in terms of the additional risk to you,
in terms of your decision making ability, questioning your decision making ability, because they don't, they really are
betting on you, right, they have no idea what you're buying, they're betting on you, you may want to think about
limiting yourself to accredited investors only. That way, you know, they are presumed to be big boys, big girls, and if
something doesn't work out, it's like, hey, you know, you knew what the deal was, you knew what you were you were
relying on my decision making abilities. And the fact the extent you didn’t agree with that, you know, that's that was
one of the risks that we had. But the main difference is going to be on in the in the business plan, a business plan is
going to look a lot different from a blind fund than a project specific because, as Russ mentioned, on a project
specific, you're showing them the pretty pictures of the property, you're showing them sort of a specific use of funds
and a specific business plan, like here's what I’m going to spend on upgrading the external units of the internal, you
know, we're going to add this, we're going to do that we're going to, these are all the things we're going to do to
specifically add value to this particular property. And then a lot of folks will actually have an actual pro forma, right,
with a bunch of assumptions. | mean, the amount of assumptions that go into a pro forma are extensive, which is one
of the things we really focus on, when we're raising capital, making sure we're disclosing to the investors all those
assumptions, but I'll give you a classic one, you're going to make an assumption of how much rent, you think you're
going to be able to raise from the time you acquire the property to the time you stabilize it. And that's an assumption
you make. And as an investor, | can look at your assumption and say, Yeah, you know, Russ thinks he’s gonna raise
rents 5% in year one, | think that's a little bit too aggressive, I'm gonna, I'm gonna assume he's only gonna be able to
raise the rents 2% Or maybe in today’s environment, he’s not going to be able to raise rents at all because of what's
going on. And so! can actually make as an investor, make some adjustments to your assumptions, | can look at your
p&l or your performance, and | can make it more conservative. If | want to, | can make it more or less conservative, |
opportunities are, and what you bring to the party. So you look at the different part people you say, Okay, what am |
what am | providing? What value am | providing to the investor? And we always have salespeople have to discipline
ourselves to do that, because the temptation is always to think about what they can do for us. That's just the way it
is, right? We think we need their money we want to do what do we want to get paid? We want this on our resume. It's
always about Oui oui, oui, mee, mee, mee II. And you don't ever forget that you won't ever forget that you don't have
to worry about that, you have to really discipline yourself to look at it through the other party's point of view. And in
this case, you get two different people at the table. And there's other people at the table to like the SEC and the IRS.
| mean, there’s other people, your team, there's a lot of people at the table, the key is to try to get a 360. So you ask
yourself, well, if the investor could go put their money directly in this in this deal that I'm going to put the money in?
What value have | added? No, I'm not saying you haven't. But you have to be prepared to justify that. The other thing
you have to ask yourself is if | bring some money to this guy that’s going to carve out room in his deal. And if it's a
hot deal, he’s probably not having a hard time making money. So you're going to have to bring something to the
party to earn your seat. You know, if you're out there raising money for a deal he can't sell it could because he’s lousy
at selling, you have a better brand, you have better network, you have better skills, or it could be the deals not that
great. And you have to be aware of that. One of the things that we talked about was the importance of of doing the
due diligence. Well, you know, in the law, there's, you know, again, we talked about responsibilities of being fiduciary
and reasonable care, there's a whole host of legal lines of attack that plaintiffs if your investment fails to perform,
can take to accuse you of some type of gross negligence or malfeasance. That's the two ways that they typically
penetrate the corporate shield. So you want to make sure that whatever due diligence you're doing, you're actually
paper in your file with it and becomes a very important part of your file. Just like if you were putting together a deal
specific fund, you would be papering your file with all of the due diligence you did on the deal. Well, you have to do
that same thing, when you're doing due diligence on the operator and their deal, you have to remember, just
because you did it, if you can't prove you did it two years from now, then it's almost like you didn't do it. So just be
aware of that. Now, there are some things you can do to mitigate some risk. If you're going to bring some money in
and you got a little bit of clout, you might insist that your name does an additional insured on the on the syndicator,
the main syndicators insurance policies, you may want to have your counsel, talk to their counsel and make sure that
your operating agreement, you know is congruent with theirs. So there's, you know, again, we don't need to get
completely in the weeds, but | just want you to see and the key to knowing how to ask the good questions, is is not
just to dive into the bowl of spaghetti and start flailing around, parse it, look at it through your eyes, and think about
where your risks and opportunities are and what you want and get that out on the table. Then put yourself in the
seat of the potential investor and look at the risks and the opportunities and the value add that you're doing. And
then do the same thing with the, with the syndicator you're thinking about putting money into and try to figure out
that SWOT analysis, you know, what your strengths are, what your weaknesses are, where your opportunities are,
where those threats are, and then start coming up with strategies to capitalize on the opportunities and mitigate the
risks. And if you start thinking that way, just as a matter of practice, you will begin to be able to look into the future
and see where the potential line landmines are. And you know, where the low hanging fruit is, and you'll see it sooner.
Often, we don't see it soon enough, because we just get lost in the weeds. So you know, | don't know if that was very
specific. But I've just found that that is such a helpful way to approach these, you know, what seemed like complex
problems, just break them into pieces and attack them individually from from an opportunity, obligations and risks
perspective. And then think about always creating good documentation both in the accounting in the due diligence
in the memorializing the understandings that you have with your investors and with all your counterparties all of that
and that's just again, discipline. And the other thing that | would highly recommend for everybody, which isn't
necessarily specific to sub syndication is keep a CEO log like a diary. And keep that and every time you're making
business decisions, you know, write down and record your rationale. What you were thinking, | call it the What the
hell was | thinking lock. And you know, I'm not saying you ever share that with anybody but for your own peace of
mind when you start juggling a lot of things, you know, you forget what you were thinking you made a decision. And
you know, for me, | go through a logic process, | get to the decision, | make the decision, and | forget how | got there.
|, you know, | remember what the decision is, but | can't remember why | made the decision turns out to be a great
decision, maybe | could replicate it, maybe | can't, because | can't remember how | got there. But worse, if it's a bad
decision, it's hard to get the lesson when you don't really know what the what the flaw in your thinking was. And

don't again, don't assume that you're going to remember all this stuff. So just it’s a great discipline to start keeping
JO

much, much, much better records than you probably do in what | would say, for most of us is our small little lives,
where we're managing our own money, and maybe a few investments. And we're managing a small number of team
and we're managing a small number of decisions, when it starts getting bigger. This discipline of keeping these
records is going to be really important to you. So anyway, Nuff said on that. So Scott, let's flip over to you. So can |

just

Scott Florida 41:22

ask a quick follow up? Yeah, sure. | know. So if | was hearing what Marissa was saying there, if, if we're gonna do a
sub syndication, one option is going to be create the another deal syndication so or entity. So it's going to be like
15,000, just to get that started. And then you start bringing in your investors and you got to overcome that bump, in
order to get to a decent return. Or you can just try to depending on the relationship that you have with that the
person your sub syndicating with, you can go directly into the deal, or bring those investors directly to him or her and
work directly that way. Is that am | understanding that correctly?

Mauricio 42:12

No, you're no, no, because the first parts correct, | mean, you've got you're going to be again, just like any other
syndication, you're going to be raising the capital, you're most likely going to take an acquisition fee, you've got legal
fees, you got CPE, but all those startup fees that you would have, which has to be taken into account. So if you're
going to invest a million dollars in the sub syndication, you probably need to raise 1.1, or something, a 1.05 or
something. What we're talking about in terms of working directly with the sponsor is something that potentially
could happen in the future, it doesn’t exist right now. So there's a rule, a proposed law that would allow you in the
future if it if it passes. And if it passes in substantially the same format it is right now that's proposed, that would
allow you to simply refer those investors directly to the sponsor to the sub syndicator, or the Syndicate, the main
syndicator, and they get compensated for that referral for that introduction for that finding the investor, you could
get paid for that. But that’s, that’s not a syndication, that would just be you're just, you're getting a referral fee for
referring investors, you know, to that main sponsor.

Scott Florida 43:15
Okay. So you can still do that you just wouldn't get be able to do anything with the referral fees, or, you know, right

now,

Mauricio 43:22

you would not be able to you could do that right now, you just wouldn't get compensated for it, right?

Scott Florida 43:26
Yep. Okay. Yep. Very helpful.

43:29

You could make an arrangement or ratio or not, I'm asking the question, Where somehow you're working, let's call it
November 2020 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Legal
and Compli...

@ Wed, 10/27 3:02PM @57:41

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

syndication, investors, money, deal, fund, llc, question, people, syndicator, business, exemption, raising, property, blind, cash,

state, invest, mauricio, risk, compensated

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Mauricio, Alex Petkas

) Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club. It’s Ross and we're here for another edition of Ask The mentors and this one is legal
and compliance along with our resident. Syndication attorney, Mauricio, Ronald. Hey, Mauricio, Al you guys doing?
We are good. Happy to be here. And excited. We have only one question pre submitted by Alex are a student who
seems to always have a question. So which we appreciate. And of course, we just got back from a great time in
Dallas together, it was so nice to be together with everybody live, yeah, and see people's faces and smiling and just
having a lot of fun. So | can't wait to do that again. But Alex, let's just go ahead and start with you. Since Mauricio
kind of gave us a legal update. | don't think much has changed in the world since a weekend, I'm a resale so we'll just
we'll leave that as it is. But if any of you have any questions that came up as a result of the things we receive shared
at the meetup, and you'd like to get clarified, now would be a good time to do that. But let's start with Alex. So I've
got your question printed out here, Alex. But why don’t you go ahead and unmute yourself, and you can ask it
directly.

o Alex Petkas 01:22

Sure. Hi, everybody. Hi, Marie. CO. So my question is, how does an invest an investment funds differ, if at all, from a
syndication? | think that maybe I'm not the only one who has been seeing ads pop up about these things? And I've
people asking me about it, and a friend is actually interested in perhaps he's asking me if I'd be interested in trying to
go down this path. And so I'm just kind of like trying to figure out what exactly is this thing?

© Russ 01:52

Okay, so Marissa, before you jump in, let me just say a couple things. One is, we really do cover a lot of things in the
secrets of successful syndication. This is one of them. But the problem is when the student is ready, that’s when the
lesson appears, even though it was right there. Right? | probably heard it before. Yeah, and it's fine. So I'll give you
you know, kind of the nickel tour that | give in secrets of successful syndication. But again, it’s why it's really good to
go back and take that class over and over and over again. Because there's going to be many things. And | know this
from the years of doing this that people ask in the middle of trying to figure out and it’s actually been something
© Mauricio 53:44

the the fallback which is not what | would recommend, but if you just create one LLC, just pick your state, like you
said you had 10 in Tennessee, so let's say we create a Tennessee LLC to be the syndication LLC. And then you wanted
to put a bunch of Arizona properties in that we would have to register that Tennessee, LLC in Arizona. And then if
you bought a property in Florida, we would have to register it because again, that's where we're doing the business
because that's where we have the ownership. However, if you were doing a deal like that you would most likely from
an asset protection standpoint, understand that it's not in the investors best interest to have all 10 or 20 properties in
one LLC. Because if something were to happen to one of those properties, you're exposing the other 19 Or the other
nine or whatever. And so you would typically have at that point, you would create sub sub LLCs. The question is just
how many and that's a discussion between you and your attorney. You know, is it one LLC per property? Maybe,
maybe not, is it three LLC is where you stick three properties in each LLC. That's a discussion how many

© Russ 54:44

but they're effectively me Scott, just for a visual, they're effectively like firewalls on a cruise ship, you know, in other
words, you know, you're going to have a certain amount of water you're willing to take on, you get a portfolio of 20
properties, okay? If if one of them catches fire, and I'm mixing my metaphors I'm willing to let the equity burn for
three and then it's going to stop at that LLC. And they would have to penetrate the next LLC in order to get more.
That's a business decision not a legal decision. And it's a it's a, it’s a risk versus reward. Obviously, from a risk
mitigation standpoint, the bullet proof thing is to have each one in its own LLC, and then have a third entity that
equity strips, so all the equity in any property, or is it that one entity is holding liens against all the equity and all the
properties. So now the only claim that they could possibly get would be the flow of income under one property, but
that structure is going to be expensive. Now, if there are a bunch of little green houses, it may not make sense, right?
If there are a bunch of 200 unit apartment buildings, it might make a lot of sense, because you have economies of

scale. Those are business decisions.

© Mauricio 55:52

But the reward and the only reward you get with That's exactly right. It's a risk reward analysis. And the only reward
you get is the cost savings of not having to put each and every single LLC age property in the each LLC, Tennessee
happens to be expensive. It's $300 per LLC. So if you've got 10, that’s $3,000. So the reward is to save the $3,000 the

risk is

© Russ 56:15

all the other stuff that would happen, right? Yeah, | mean, for what you save on the entity structure, you might be
able to just purchase gobs of insurance and feel comfortable with that. And that might end up being a better deal.
So you know, as much as lawyers love entities, they aren't the end all be all. And your first line of defense, as we
talked about in the secrets of successful syndication is a good portfolio of insurance. And you have to get good at
both of those things. And of course, the ultimate thing is do good deals with good people and do good business. And
you'll mitigate a lot of your risk. Not all of it, but a lot of it. Okay, so | think that we're at the top, we're going to call
that a wrap. | don't have any other questions in queue, if you want to make sure that your questions get answered. In
other words, if you're leaving here, frustrated because something came up and you didn't get a chance to ask it, just

make sure you submit them ahead of time, because if you submit them ahead of time, we're going to answer them
Jo

little bit of yield, where you're probably going to get none while you're waiting for me to find a home for your cash.
Right so their strategy so you know, as your sophistication grows in your awareness Have these vehicles grows, you'll
you'll begin to learn different ways how do you manage large sums of cash, you know, chief financial officers that
corporations have to figure this out all the time, because they're sitting on gobs of cash. And they have to figure out
how to mitigate banking risk. And they have to learn how to mitigate currency risk, and they have to learn how to
keep that money, safe liquid, but also, you know, generating some form of a yield. And you know, most of us don't
think that way, because we deal in sums that are too small. But as you get bigger, that’s actually an additional
service you can provide for investors and a blind type font, if you choose it, you may decide, Hey, that’s not worth my
time. So that's a business decision, but it is an option for you. Anyway, okay. Any other questions on this topic? Before

we open it

Scott Florida 20:46

up? Just quick follow up. | John, in a recent call recommended the who not how book, which | read. And so my
question is, who is the kind of person | go to for something like that? Is that just you go to your banker? Or do you go
to an Edward Jones guy? Or who do you talk to, to kind of carry that? Or help you figure out how to carry it during
that time period?

Russ 21:12

Well, | mean, it's just a matter of being aware of what the options are out there. So sure, yeah, you may, you may
have a relationship with people in the bond market, you know, brokers that deal in those types of things. | don't think
you're going to be going directly to the Treasury, you might be able to candidly, | know people who do it, I've not

done it. But | know it’s possible. Our friend Simon black, was holding, the reason this came up is because | watched
he and Peter Schiff have a little bit of a debate on one of the summits. And, you know, we were all kind of making fun
of anybody that was sitting in the dollar. But But, but Simon felt like a 30 day exposure to the dollar in order to get a
little bit of yield, rather have the counterparty risk be the US government in the printing press than a bank, and the
FDIC. And that made a lot of sense to me. So | thought to myself, hmm, if | ever had a chance, where | was sitting on
millions of dollars of cash, and | was just keeping it is dry powder waiting for an opportunity, | probably would look
into that. So when you get to that point, you know, we can throw it out in the ecosystem? I'm sure we'll find a quick
answer. But, you know, right now, | don't, I'm guessing you don't have that problem. So but just understand it's
definitely out there. You know, | don't want to sit here and blow smoke and say, you know, I've done it, or | know how
to do it at a tactical level. But | know strategically, it's certainly available to do it's not complicated. And we could get
the details when when you're ready to do that. Okay. All right. So let's move on. So John has a question here about
sub syndication. So John, why don't you unmute yourself, and let's put you up and hear your question.

22:48

Amory, so how are you? John? How are ya? I'm fabulous. Thanks for your time today. Hey, Scott, I'm glad you liked
that book. Um, Mauricio, | like what rust just brought up again, the idea when you're starting out to actually learn by
getting involved either passively, or through sub syndication? | actually have a call scheduled tomorrow with a
gentleman | met at the event over the weekend regarding possibly working as a sub syndicator. So from the
perspective of a sub syndicator, what do | legally have to be aware of? Both not to do anything stupid to get myself
in, in trouble, unintentionally, and also, to protect myself not to, you know, in general sense not to put anything on
anyone else, but to protect myself from the syndicator who don't know who they are and what they're about, you
know, so those two aspects if you could address that, please. Thank you.
an employee, | don't know if it'll fish, where you're working for the sponsor actua oing something, I'm doing all the
ployee, | don't k if it'll fish, where you’ king for the sp tually doing thing, I'm doing all th

excels, analysis, whatever, that's okay. Right. If it, you know, such a thing can be worked out.

Mauricio 43:55

That's a completely different thing we're talking about. But in general, you would have to number one, you cannot
get paid transaction based compensation. So you can't get compensated contingent upon people that you bring in
to the deal, investing in the deal. And you would have to, to the extent you're bringing in capital to the deal, and
you're working as an employee or as a whatever, you would have to be performing substantial duties, whatever that
means. And your primary role needs to be doing that substantial duties, your primary role can't be bringing in the
money. So if you're a legitimate employee, and you're getting a salary, and you're bringing in people and that salary
is not based on how many people you bring in, meaning, if you bring in zero people, you bring all the people it
doesn't matter, you're gonna get paid the same thing because you're actually getting paid to do something,

whatever that something is, then that's fine. But that's that's a completely different thing.

Russ 44:49

And | think the other thing that everybody needs to be mindful of, of what you're really trying to accomplish, and if
you're building a business every time you refer your investors to somebody else, you're really for your customers to
somebody else, and you have to decide how much control you have in those relationships, how much you trust the
person on the other side. Some of that is just going to be business and friendly. And you know, at the end of the day,
investors probably are going to find people out there any way. So if you can get in on the action, maybe that’s okay.
But, you know, you just just need to think about all those things, you know, you may have an agreement with
somebody where, hey, | bring the investor, but you're not allowed to solicit them for additional investments, if they
want to invest with you, again, they need to do it through me, something like that, right. But again, | don't like the
idea of doing some of that from a business perspective, because an investor finds out that you have blocked them
from doing something they want to do, then all sudden, you have positioned yourself as somebody that is using them
for a payday instead of helping them accomplish their goals. | think your positioning always wants to be 100%,
about helping them achieve their goals. And if you do that, from time to time, it isn't going to be in your self interest.
And that's a good habit to get into. Because ultimately, that’s what your fiduciary responsibility says is the way you
need to be thinking at all times. Now, if you find yourself continually doing things for other people and never getting
paid, then just stop doing those things, right, and go do other things that you actually get paid to do. But if you are
going to do something, and you're going to get paid, your compensation still has to be subordinated to what's in
their best interest. That's the safest way to play this game. Okay, now, Scott, you had questions about moving a
portfolio, one state to another multiple states. And | think | have one other comment on that, actually. Because that
back and forth with John, | think was good. And Maria, this is a point of clarification for you. Let's say I'm located in
Florida. And let's say that the deal is located in Texas. And let's say the investor is located in Indiana. All right, so now
| got three different potential jurisdictions plus the Fed. Now | understand from the exemption point of view, the Fed
exemption overrides the states, correct me if I'm wrong, but what are there any other considerations about these
multi state deals in which jurisdiction rules where you are, where the investor is where the property is, if it's something
that doesn't fit underneath a federal exemption?

Mauricio 47:24

The investment advisory rules will depend on the state that you're physically located, because that’s where you're
providing the supposedly providing the recommendations and the advice. And so if you're in Florida, then as John
mentioned, | would go check the Florida investment advisory statutes to see what the exemption requirements are.
From an entity
Oo
O)

JO

Russ 28:53
Let's go ahead,

28:56

it's exactly about what we're already talking about. So as a sub syndicator, | would get to two more points. One, |
would go to someone like you and hire you to put together the same paperwork as if | were the main syndicator I'm
doing this same exact thing. So | still need to do all of that correct?

Mauricio 29:24

Yes, you're hiring me not just to do the paperwork, you're hiring me to make sure that you're raising the capital in
compliance with federal securities laws. And so this one has a little bit more of a wrinkle to it because we're
obviously buying securities and that whole world but yes, it’s the same exact the end product for you your
deliverables if you want to think about it other than obviously the the advice and making sure you're not stepping on
any landmines, the deliverable, you'll still end up with a PPM most likely a business plan, an operating agreement, a
subscription of the same documentation. Now there are some a lot of people do shortcuts which I'm okay with. So
for example, you know, the underlying sindicato probably has a pretty robust business plan, right? An executive
summary already prepared. So you have two options, you can take that business with their permission, you can take
that business plan and basically rebrand it as your own as if you wrote it. Or you could just attach it, you know, here's
maybe a little introductory page to kind of explain what's going on here. But then basically say, Hey, here's, here's
the business plan that the that the operator has written, and it kind of explains all the stuff there anyway. So I've
seen that done before. But you're gonna have your own PPM your own, obviously, everybody's coming into your LLC.
So you're gonna have your own operating agreement, your own subscription agreement, your own questionnaire,

your own everything.

30:40

Okay, so now I'm going to put a wrinkle on that, how is what you just said, Give front, then simply raising money,
which you brought up Saturday saying, that is something that is now going to be able to be done if | understood it
correctly. So that to me says, well, the whole hullabaloo that we just talked about, would be necessary, if that goes

through. So if you can address that difference, please?

Mauricio 31:13

| think that is | think what you're referring to is the proposed rule that came out recently, that would allow you to get
compensated from a syndicator for bringing in a bunch of money. Yes, which is a far away from being passed. But at
some point, let’s just assume that that happens. And for those of you who weren't there, or haven't seen the
recording, there's a new proposal, essentially, that will allow you to basically get referral fees, you'll be able to,
instead of doing a sub syndication, where you raise capital, on your own deal, and then invested in somebody else,
you may just say, hey, somebody else, I've got 10 investors sitting over here, I'm going to send them your way. And
they're going to put in a million dollars, and | just want you to pay me a couple 100 grand, or 100, grand, whatever
you whatever negotiation you want to do, like a couple 100, grand, right, whatever, a couple 100 grand. So yes, that
would definitely affect there's a lot of people who do the sub syndication and the funded funds for the purpose of |
want to say getting around, but for a way for them to get compensated for bringing in people, that's one of the way
can mess around with a blind fund, | can't do any of that, right? I'm literally betting on the jockey, | just have to have
faith that Russ knows what he's doing. And then I'm going to entrust my money with Ross, he’s going to go out there
and do it. So structurally speaking, actually, structurally speaking, it may be very similar to a project specific, but
you're not going to have specifics, you're literally going to have what we call a fund criteria of what what are the
predetermined criteria that you're going to tell the investors you're going to do. So for example, you're going to invest
in real estate, that's one parameter, right, you're not going to go take the money and invest in cryptocurrency, you're
going to invest in us real estate, maybe that’s a parameter, you know, and you can kind of go, you can dig down, dig
deep, as much as you want. But you want to give yourself the flexibility to be able to do what you want to do. But
you're just giving them parameters. And so your business plan looks a lot simpler, because you're just kind of given
them the idea and the game plan with it. And you're gonna give some examples and all that stuff. But but but really,
you're just you're just talking about your really your investment thesis, one of the | will talk about one, let me just
touch on real quick, | don't want to take the entire hour to talk about this, although we probably could. There are
some unique things that pop up in a blind fund versus a project specific and probably the number one issue that
comes up is what happens if | raise all the money, which is great, it’s nice to have all the money in a bank account
ready to deploy as soon as you identify something that you like. But what if it takes you a little while to find
something? What if it takes you six months, maybe takes you a year to find a property now that money sitting in a
bank account earning zero interest, and the investors are saying, wait a minute, I've got my money tied up with you,
you're not providing me with a return? So you've got to address that. And there's many ways you can do it. Probably
the most popular one | think is is not taking everybody's all of the money up front. So you sort of get a commitment.
Yes, you want to invest $100,000. Great. I'll just take $10,000. Now I'll take a 10% deposit. And then when | find
something, I'll ask what the other 90% that way, I'm not really on the hook for either | don't have a return for you. But
it's only 10% of your money. It's not a big deal. But we want some incentive, right, we don't want to wait six months
and then say, okay, Johnny, your other 90% is due and Johnny changes his or his mind in this case and doesn't want
to give you the money. So we kind of throw in some disincentives for you to do that, which is primarily you're going to
waive your 10% If you don't come up with our other 90% Within five days or 10 days or whatever we come up with.
So there's little little nuances like that, that we want to be aware of, but we can certainly go through that, you know,
on ad one on one or something but there are some things that you want to consider but from a legal standpoint, just
take it back up again and wrap it up. The same rules apply. You're still looking for an exemption most likely 506 B,

maybe five or six C and we go through the exact same rules

Russ 10:01

So that's that's the legal side, Aleksey, do you have a clarifying question or additional comment?

Alex Petkas 10:08
Not immediately. Okay.

Russ 10:10

So that that kind of covers the legal structurally a syndication is a syndication. So it's really a matter of what you're
selling and how much risk you're taking. So we talked a little bit about the risk side of things. One of the challenges
that you would have, from a practical standpoint is, if you were to go get some insurance, you know, insurance in
particular errors and omissions insurance, as a manager, they're gonna want to know, what's your experience, the
odds of you making a mistake as a newbie are high, they might not insure you at all, or they might charge you a
huge premium. So that's one of the negatives to trying to start out with a blind fund. Typically, we think it's smarter
to start with a project specific fund. In fact, we think it's smartest to start with a sub syndication, or investing your

own money with a proven operator while you're learning the ropes, building some resume and getting some success,
