Sep and everybody's wise to be on the call. This is not as much about what are the lending guidelines and
what's the down payment requirement and what's the DCR and what how much money do | need to have
on my balance sheet? Those are all important things you need to know at the technical level they get a
deal done. But the bigger picture is, is somebody's going to shut off the air to this equity jump house and
am | going to be caught holding the bag? You know? In other words, when the music stops to mix
metaphors, will | have a chair? And when you hear somebody saying in the commercial side of things, that
the lenders are underwriting conservatively, when you find that people in their desperation to maintain
high prices are having to go to alternative sources like bridge financing, and Anton said 90%, that tells you
that the money is a little bit tighter. At least that's what | how | read the tea leaves and Anton and
Stephanie, you can feel free to disagree. But it makes me feel like things are tightening up a little bit. And
the other issue, of course, is how fragile the bond market is. Because if interest rates do go up, then
existing bonds are priced down. It's just like an apartment building. If you buy an apartment building and
the income doesn't go up, but the cap rate went down, you just paid more for the same income. Well, the
same thing is true with a bond, right? If the coupon rate of the bond is whatever it is, and you pay more for
that your yield on capital goes down because you paid more for the same income. But of course, the
reverse is true. If the bid goes down, it forces the yield up. In other words, existing bonds already have
their coupon set, it's like the rent, it doesn't change. And so the only way to adjust your yield is to adjust
your bid. If | bid more, I'm willing to accept less return on my investment, if | bid less, | need to get a
higher yield. Well, if the going rate in the market has gone up, then the existing bonds are going to be bid
down so that the actual yield comes back up to market. Okay. And this is why the bond market is so fragile
because we have years and years and years and years and trillions of dollars of bonds that have been
Originated in a zero rate environment. And when you understand that, and then you marry it to the other
thing. So this isn't about what's going on in the bond market. And it isn't what's going on with interest
rates. What's really going on in the apartment space. | think Anton, I'll be interested to see if you see
anything on this yet, or as we progress and continuing to, you know, to have you keep us updated. But the
the the interest rates, in order to get a real yield, that continues to fall, you have to have inflation. In other
words, if you understand a nominal rate is whatever the interest rate is, say it's 1%. And that's the number
that's the nominal rate. If inflation is 3%. And your note rate is 1%, you have a minus two real yield. In
other words, you're losing 2%. to inflation, you're one point forward three steps back as minus two. So if
you have to lower real interest rates in order to preserve the bond market and interest rates are already at
zero, what do you have to do with inflation? You have to drive inflation up. So if | have zero and | need an |
need a minus three, | need inflation of 3%. If | need if | need a minus four, | need inflation at 4%. Because |
can't move the interest rate it's already at zero. And this is why | don't think inflation is transitory. And why
| think they're so desperate to try to create a scenario where they can actually reset because we have
been on a 40 year declining interest rate since the dollar collapse in the 70s. They reset the interest rate in
the early 80s. And we've been enjoying 40 plus years of falling interest rates. Well that party's at an end.
And now we have to have inflation. And the Fed came out in 2000 Something eight or nine or five or
whatever. And they they publicly said they were committed to 2% inflation but now that they've achieved
2% inflation, they talk about backing off but they can't they won't they can't do it. And the concern now
with the apartment investors, any any of you who are multifamily, any of you who are renting to
consumers right now, working class people. i You probably just saw this yesterday today or yesterday, we
just had a CPI index that came out a 30 or 40 year high. This is the worst street inflation even Biden came
out after she said the first thing he did as president is he shut down the Keystone pipeline. We went from
abundant energy and oil that was priced in the negative numbers and very cheap to being very expensive
and that has rippled through. So you may agree with the politics of the environment or whatever reason he
did it but at the end of the day, the street effect is rising cost of everything, and your tenants are feeling it
right now. And so you need To be paying attention to that. And so it doesn't surprise me with Anton saying
that these guys are more strictly underwriting and the bridge lenders, you know, you can tell stories to the
bridge lenders, you can tell you know, you can you can project oh three to five years and rents gonna go
up and blah, blah, blah. But you can't tell those stories to the other lenders, right, man Anton, that's what |
heard you say?
A 59:15
Thank you
at a pretty significant penalty. Usually for a conventional Fannie it's around 0.3% above the eel
maintenance rate, so it's a pretty stiff penalty. Another alternative is that you go with a floating rate loan,
Fannie is not ideal candidate for that Freddie is a much better lender when it comes to so called floating
rate loans. There, the interest rate is fixed, is adjusted every month. And you are starting out today we
locked in a loan recently at 2.9%. Obviously, that is going to adjust every single month during that holding
period. However, the Freddie is asking you to buy so called interest rate caps. So you're still protecting
yourself from from a massive jump. So | would say for all these deals, larger deals, | would definitely
consider to go with a with a Freddie floater and just add the interest rate cap. That is the minimum that
Freddie requires. But you also can buy it down so your actual maximum interest rate can be very bearable.

® Anton Mattli 48:55
Beggar

© Russ 48:57

Nice. Anybody else question? Question for the mentors? Don't be shy hate dead air.

© Stephanie Riley 49:08

| got one more. So our | mean, there's all these examples throughout history right? Simon black always
talks about you have all these currency failures. Are any of the lenders getting smart and asking? You
know, if if we go to a fed coin, or if we go to this is me putting on my tinfoil hat like Chinese? Where are
they? Where's their digital currency called? If we switch currencies or something? Or if the dollar collapses,
where the loan has to be repaid in a new currency? Are you guys seeing any language accounting for
inflation? Like is there any changes whatsoever to the loan documents in that in that specific regard, just
on inflation and on potential currency?

© Russ 49:51

Basically, I'm gonna guess and Stephanie and Anton can correct me if I'm wrong, but all of the contracts
are denominated in dollars. There's no alternative of Any other currency for settlement? If if the currency
were to fail, it would become a crisis where contracts would be overridden were extreme things happen,
you know, when when, when we collapse in the 20s. The extreme was We confiscated all the gold and
basically took Americans off the gold standard. In 1971, Nixon defaulted on the entire gold standard, you
know, in between that we had the Bretton Woods, when when the world kind of went on to the dollar
standard to set up the United States to default. But those are all major events, and you really can't predict
what's going to come out of that. Nobody's going to start hedging, especially anybody that is tied directly
to a government agency or in a highly regulated business, right? This my opinion, that's not going to
happen. Now, does that mean that private lenders, you know, if a syndicator out there said, Hey, I'm going
to start a fund, and we're going to lend in, you know, whatever, and we think that this currency is going to
die. So therefore, we're going to provide alternatives. | mean, those are private contracts, you can
probably do whatever you want. But | can't imagine and correct me if I'm wrong, Stephanie, and Anton, or |
can't imagine there's even any even talk about that. | think the last word thing in the world, anybody that's
part of the system is going to admit this is even a possibility the dollar could fail.
51:25

Yeah, | agree. It's all dollar denominated, no one is, is referring to an alternative currency or payment
method. So as a borrower you are required to to, to meet your obligations in US dollars, right. However,
that might look like if the dollar collapses and goes away? Well, there will be a replacement for that in one
way or an order. And that in the lending world, we call that restructuring. And that's what would happen
with all these deals. Right.

JO

© Russ 52:05

Okay, so, in our closing minutes, and if anybody has a question, feel free to ask it. But But since I've been
Shaking the tree pretty hard, and we don't have any. | would, I'm curious stuff. Just use what, you know,
what you've been seeing in terms of lending guidelines? Or are things from your perspective? Are they
getting easier? Or do you feel like they're the LTVs? The the underwriting the credit scores, the reserves?
Is it getting tighter? Is it getting easier? Is it just steady as she goes?

() Stephanie Riley 52:42
Sorry, looking for that mute button. It's been pretty steady. | mean, when they took away that 7% cap on
Fannie and Freddie purchasing investment property and second home loans, we immediately saw low level
price adjustments that were super high to the worse, disappeared. So pricing gaps from owner occupied to
second home and investment property closed. From a pricing standpoint, as far as guidelines and
qualifying. So far, it's been pretty steady into Anton's point about the bridge money out there, the same
sort of thing happens in the residential space with portfolio lenders that come in with their own funds, and
fill those gaps. And what happens is, | see the complete competition, because if you can go to a portfolio
lender, and not have to mess with all these guidelines, and only pay a small margin higher, um, that | see
some of that, it feels like there's some tension there. That's keeping the, in order to keep the the
warehouse, right, that's the sales going. The conforming and conventional lenders have to keep their
guidelines, so they're not losing customers to the portfolio lenders. So there is | see that tension there. But
So far, it's been pretty steady.

© Russ 54:09

What about income documentation? Is it they asking for more? Are you starting to see anything that looks
like stated more flexibility, less seasoning, anything at all that indicates loosening or anything that
indicates tightening?

© Stephanie Riley 54:25
Um it's been pretty steady, | mean, loosening in the sense of COVID. So COVID, there were overlays that
all the lenders had, they freaked out immediately jumped on a bunch of overlays, to kind of hedge and
those have lifted and kind of we've gone back to more normal. Now, | haven't seen anything recently
where it's like, oh, we used to have to do this. And now we have to do more or we have to do less The only
change. The only caveat to that would be COVID. You know, this was The COVID overlaying were lifting it
now. So in that sense, you could say yes, there's loosening.
real estate is the go to vehicle for doing that. But Jim, the reason | wanted to bring you up is that if you can
just take a second and just help people understand that when when a seller who maybe has some equity,
and a lot of sellers don't realize the flexibility, the things they can do with their equity, they just sell. But
when you're there, and you're looking to create a deal in your capital stack, as a buyer, you're going to
bring in your downpayment, and you're going to bring in your loan. But the owner's equity could also be a
source for you, even if they want instant liquidity, because if you can help them create the note, then you
can also introduce them to a guy like Jim, who can help them sell the note and get instant liquidity and
they don't have to get the liquidity from you. So can you can you just talk just a tad about that, Jim?

@) Jim Griffin 12:50

Yeah, so just a tad about that. So yes, the key is to paper up the note in such a way that it has, that you're
not leaving money on the table, when you want to go Sell that note in the marketplace. Marketplace is
going to look for something that they consider to be a quality note. And so you pay for that up in a way
that that is considered quality, is

@ Russ 13:19

it only me or can we not hear? Ya?

Gy) Jim Griffin. 13:22

There are different? Okay, um, what | am worried about my connection here.

© Russ 13:29

Yeah. Okay, so I'm gonna, | think we made the point to Jim, Jim has a a report, also very detailed report in
our library. So I'm sure Stephanie can look up those reports and get you all information on how you can
access them. But learning to understand the debt side of things is important and how things fit together.
So for example, you know, you might have investors that have equity on their balance sheets with
residential one to four properties, maybe they own their home, maybe they own a second home, maybe a
couple rental properties, Stephanie can show you how to access that capital. And if you understand the
arbitrage concept, do it in such a way that it doesn't, you free up a big chunk of it, that they can then use
as a down payment or put into your syndication and they become your equity going into a deal and you're
going to pair that with debt from somebody like Anton. But what what Jim has is a marketplace for notes in
the secondary market. And so what you're able to do with that is, depending on what Anton says, the
commercial lender will accept your capital stack is your downpayment, which may be sourced from
repositioned equity from your smaller investors real estate portfolio through someone like Stephanie, and
then your conventional debt, which would be sourced from a broker like Anton, and as long as that
commercial lender would allow a second to exist. There could be a carry back from the original seller, and
then a guy like Jim can help you create liquidity They're so when you have these tools in your toolbox, and
I'm not bringing it up, because we're gonna go into the weeds right now I'm just, | want you to be aware
that when you have these tools in your toolbox, and these people, these advisors, in your Rolodex or in
your speed dial in your phone, your contact list, whatever we call it these days, then you can often get
deals done that other people can't figure out how to get done. And that's especially true in a tight market.
So just be aware, and that's all I'm saying. Just be aware. So Stephanie, just put up for in the chat for those
SO Okay, I'm gonna have some thoughts Anton. What are your What are you seeing out there?

20:02

Yes, still similar to, to the residential one to four units when it comes to the conventional residential loans,
Fannie and Freddie. And they continue to underwrite in a very conservative fashion based on in place cash
flow. They are not projecting any, to any performer. So when it comes to these loans, | would say the
cushion in most instances is only there from a valuation perspective, as well as in most instances from a
cash flow perspective, as long as the operators are able to perform. Right, so we still have a debt service
coverage ratio, that's typically 1.25, maximum loan to value of 80%. And when we look back to 2009-2010,
multifamily dropped in some markets, maybe a little bit more, but then average maybe around 20%, for a
very brief period. So as long as he didn't have to refinance, you are able to recover from that. Now, there
my main concern really lies where there is certainly much less of a of a conservative underwriting going
on, and a call it the wild most of financing is in the bridge space. Right now. 90% of all multifamily deals
that we arranged to financing are all done with bridge loans, right repeat 90%. And a lot of those steals, or
so called stabilized so they would qualify for a Fannie or Freddie loan. The problem is because of the debt
service coverage constraint, the leverage may come in at depending on the market, like a phoenix market
at 50%. And so indicators and all investors want to have 70% plus, so what do they do to go with a bridge
loan, and for to support a bridge loan you need to underwrite to future cash flow. So everyone comes up
with these, with these performance numbers that are three to five year performance, typically, the lender
under writes through the three year exit into an agency loan or a permanent financing. And that | would
Say is the is really the risk element in the in that market. The reason for that is we have seen more
liquidity in the bridge space than ever before. In March 2020. Van COVID-19 Shut the whole country down
and the world down for for a brief period. A lot of bridge lenders went under a lot of them stopped lending.
And the reason for that is simple. Most of these deals are securitized, right they also come at have their
own balance sheet but 95% Plus, or all securities are securitized so they depend on being able to sell these
loans that they originate today, over the next three to six months into so called clo or Colette collateralized
loan obligation, which is essentially a bond. And that is really my main concern. These are a lot of deals
that have short term financing, usually two years to three years initially, some of them have one and one
extension. So that's a little bit safer. But | foresee that quite a number of these deals will struggle to get
into a permanent loan, particularly when interest or if interest rates rise, as Stephanie has alluded to,
whereas only can be a risk for that. And a lot of people say of all interest rates will stay low balled that
potentially as the case. But we should remind us that in 2008, 9, and 10, interest rates came down but cap
rates went up. Right. So investors, or as what Stephanie said, they are looking at what is what is my return
that | need to see. And a lot of these loans are again, third party investors, once they decide that they
don't like the return, then they move out of that segment. Right. And so | think the valuation potentially is
an issue, as well as just interest rate that someone cannot refinance into a problem with all these bridge
loans.

JO

© Russ 24:37

So Sep |, it's a great question, by the way, but I'm not sure everybody understands the greatness of the
question. And | think it's important you've been doing this a long time. You | think you came into your
investing career just after 2008. So the wake of that was fresh. You didn't experience it personally, as |
recall, but I'm sure you stepped right into it. Of course we stepped right in it in 2008 But it just explained
everybody why are you asking the question? How does this apply to your your syndicating in terms of you
know, your, your investment choices, your investment thesis, your financing structures? Why are you
asking the question? Oh,
& Saundra 09:28

funny. | think my markets where | live is way too expensive, like I've just been exploring, and | was like,
wow, how does someone get into this first time here?

© Russ 09:36

Yeah, live where you want to live, but invest where the numbers make sense. And you're not looking for
properties. You're looking for markets. And once you find a market, you're looking for teams, and then the
team's the boots on the ground teams in the market can bring you the deals. Your job is to bring them the
money and the debt and the leadership. That's where you have to see the big picture and bring your bring
your people in. Anton, you wrote a paper for us and stuff. Do you remember what the CTA was the email to
get that? I'm sure it's at the real estate guy's website. If you go to real estate guys radio.com and look
under the resources tab under special reports, there's probably a report there about multifamily lending
written by Anton, you're going to want to read that it'll teach you things about like debt coverage ratio,
and reserves and all that kind of stuff. And that's a great place to start. Okay, all right, good. So, Steph,
you said we had a second question.

@ Stephanie Riley 10:33

You're, well, Sep had a question. | don't know if you want to address the questions of the people that are
on the Yeah,

© Russ 10:40

yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So Sep, go ahead. And oh, and by the way, | want to point out that Jim Griffin just joined
us. So Jim is some of you know from the show, he's both a member of the club. But he's also in the real
estate guys, provider network. And he's one of our faculty members. And he's an expert in private notes.
And sometimes when you're trying to put a deal together a private note, either one that you create, with
an owner carry back, persuading the seller to create a note. And, in fact, let's just take a minute and go
there. Hey, Jim, can you can you unmute and pop up and Say hello to everybody?

G) Jim Griffin 11:16

Sure, I'm, I'm actually visiting California right now. So | don't know how stable my internet connection is, or
whether you can hear me well or not. But

© Russ 11:27

| will, | won't take any digs at California. So | just spent the weekend in Lafayette, Louisiana was your dad's
celebrating his 90th birthday. So that was a ton of fun. And that guy's amazing. So for those of you that
don't know, Jim's father is G. Edward Griffin, the guy who wrote Creature from Jekyll Island, who launched
the careers of me, Robert Kiyosaki, Chris Martenson, and many, many other people who woke up to realize
that the system is broken. And we have to find a way to navigate that broken system. And so profit, which
yvuuiiuiu yy UeUuuY UUM YUIONW yyul YYrevreivil.

@) Jim Griffin. 01:21

Nice to meet you. Um, so I'm new at this. And I'm just kind of learning as quick as | can. And my question
was, um, what are the things if you're going to purchase your first, let's say multifamily? And let's say it's
above a million, you know, like in my market, if | wanted to stay in South Florida, everything I'm looking at
is really expensive. What are they looking for from a first time? Like the lender, what are they looking for in
my background, or history? And how much like if | syndicated with someone else, what are they looking for
in their background? Just like a preparation?

@ Russ 01:58

Yep. Okay, so I'm gonna go ahead and hand that one off to Anton. Basically, there's two categories of
financing. And so when you're new, you're not quite familiar. Sometimes when we think of commercial real
estate, we think that it's an office building or retail building or an industrial building or something like that.
But in financing, even in residential, there's residential one to four. And then there's commercial
residential, which is five units and up so when you say multifamily, if it's four units, it would be in
Stephanie's wheelhouse. It's those are separate areas of lending. And mostly, that's because the federal
government created many years ago, Fannie Freddie, which are, you know, they call them GSEs.
government sponsored enterprises, and they're basically subsidized lenders that are supposed to make
housing affordable. He targets small housing. They do have programs for multifamily, but they're they're
handled differently. And so there's just this line of demarcation in the lending world between residential
one to four, and then residential five and up. So everything that is not residential one to four, in lending,
we typically consider commercial and then inside commercial, there are people that specialize and you
know, like industrial or farmland or multifamily is pretty ubiquitous. And so peak financing, which is Anton's
company, probably is the right person to answer this question. You're talking Sondra, about residential
more than four units.

Jim Griffin 03:26

Yes, yes.

Russ 03:29

Okay, so Anton, let's, let's toss that over to you.

Anton Mattli 03:32

Sure. Hi, Sandra. So, the good news is that your personal income doesn't matter for for commercial real
estate, including multifamily. The underwriting is really done based on the property's cash flow, we call it
NOI. And that NOI then determines based on the loan, the interest rate amortization, the debt service
coverage, and that, at the basic level determines the loan amount in addition to the value LTV loan to
value, that is the maximum amount. So that's the good news. Now, the negative part is is that lenders
generally like to see some experience in commercial real estate that you're buying, whether it's retail,
whether it's multifamily or an office building. However, if you're local to a building, and it's a relatively
o Anton Mattli 35:19

Jo

JO

Yes, that's correct. It's really two separate worlds, right? It's the permanent lenders that tend to underwrite
conservatively, they do not really care whether you have these rosy projections. They look at the in place
cash flow, they look at current valuation, whereas on the bridge side, they do not really care. And | always
try to explain what how the bridge loan market to a large extent, is really nothing else, but also a
syndication game, right. If you do a syndication, obviously, you raise equity, and you get that, and then
you buy this property. Well, bridge lenders essentially do the same thing, right, so they raise equity, to get
a certain amount of financing. So they get warehouse lending, so they get a big chunk of warehouse
lending.

Russ 36:13

For those of you that don't know, it's just like a giant line of credit that a mortgage originator has. So if
you're a mortgage banker, which means you're lending your own funds, you're not really lending savings,
because you don't have any savings, which you have is a giant credit line, and you fund your loans out of
the credit line, and then trade that for stacks of mortgages. And pretty soon you have a stack of paper.
And then you take that to the to the security market, and they buy that paper and they securitize it and
sell the bonds and they pay pay you cash, you use it to pay down your credit line, and you make your
living churning that credit line, you make a little bit of profit when you sell the paper, but you're making a
lot of profit, just in the points and fees of originating the loan. So they're supplying your inventory, if you
will, if you're running a grocery store, your warehouse line of credit is just the the cereal and the spaghetti
and the Kansas soup or whatever it is, it's in your grocery store. So just so you just understand, it sounds
like you know, it's this big complicated. It's not that complicated. It's not that,

Sill

yeah, so in other words, they borrow money to to lend you, right, so. So it's not that they bring in all their
own equity, they can raise a massive amount of equity, but because it's still leveraged the amount of
bridge money that is flooding the market, we have never seen, right. And that is the reason why you are
able to get to 80% of loan to cost today, even though cap rates are at three and a half percent in some
markets like Phoenix and all that. So

Russ 37:45

you might have 20% down maybe 10% Bridge and 70% conventional.

37:50

Now you it's all a it's typically all bridge. Yes. So so a bridge lender doesn't doesn't want to be in a second
position or funds different all of it, what happens is, on top of that, you also can have preferred equity on
top of the bridge, which a lot of syndicators do too, so that they can do larger deals, if they do not have
the ability to raise their own equity, right. So you have the capital stack very often 85%, sometimes even
90% is all other people's money. And then you have maybe 10 to 15% that the syndicators raised
themselves from their own network, right. So there is just not that much cushion there. If you maximize
JO

JO

that leverage. There are always cases where it makes sense. But | would argue that a lot of deals or
leverage because they can. And that's really my my main warning to all of you in if a bridge lender is
willing to give you the maximum leverage, just remember that you will be you will see that you can
refinance when the capital event comes up, right. prices may drop by 20%. And you will have a fixed loan
in place. The price drops over a two or three year periods do not matter to you when you have a fixed rate
permanent loan in place. If you have a bridge loan in place, and you need to refinance that during that
downturn, well, you have a capsule called capital event. So you don't have a choice you need to do
something | do you need to sell or you need to refinance during that period. So looking back to 2009 and
2010. A lot of people that had loans maturing that then think ahead to renew their loans on in time. They
had cash flowing properties, but because the value stopped, they still had to bring equity to the table,
right? So just be careful when you maximize your leverage. Just because a lender is willing to do it doesn't
mean that it Dan, it's the best idea for us a deal sponsor and syndicator.

40:06

Add a comment to that, or at least my understanding of a comment to that, which would be that at least
on a residential one to four side, you wouldn't have as much of a concern there, right? Because it's a fixed
30 year with the equity doesn't matter drops out from underneath.

40:21

| would say generally speaking, yes, you still have lenders, or obviously on the residential side that tend to
underwrite to your personal debt to income, right, so as long as it can service these loans, it doesn't

matter in less so. But on the multifamily side, because you have that that to the debt coverage ratio, which
is typically 1.25. So you can have noi that drops by roughly 25%. And you will, would still be able to service
the debt, right? So you only half that cushion there when you have a permanent loan. And a lot of property
owners in the multifamily space this or wife 2008, nine and 10, thanks to long term financing in place.

Russ 41:10

Yeah, whether you're residential one, four, or commercial right now, | think locking in long term financing,
if you can get it is a smart thing to do. And then if you have a good source for it, and deals at pencil, | think
that explaining to your investors that, you know, well, those deals are safer. You don't want to put fear into
the minds and the hearts of your investors. But at the same time, these people, | hope are paying
attention. And you better be addressing things like how are we going to deal with the fact that gas cost
twice as much food cost twice as much? How are we going to impose rental increases on a demographic
that doesn't have any substantial discretionary income, it's all being destroyed by inflation. And so your
your your your go forward planning as to contemplate that. The other thing to look at in a marketplace like
this is you're out there lining up your investors, and you're evaluating your capital sources, whether it's
conventional lenders, bridge financing, private community banks, private equity, | mean, it's not a bad
idea in a marketplace like this to come in with all cash and just buy the properties, and then wait till the
dust settles, and then, you know, refinance them, because | believe that the financing will always come
back. So what Sep started out being worried about | don't think was is the era of financing real estate
coming to an end, | had a big debate with a guy, we were working on a television show, television, private
network for mortgage professionals, and he pulled the plug on the whole project in 2008, because he felt
like there wasn't going to be a mortgage industry. And | just that made no sense to me, I'm like, well,
pretty sure there's always going to be real estate, and people always gonna need real estate, they're
gonna be willing to pay for real estate, therefore, there's income, pretty sure people aren't going to start
November 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on
Lending with Rus...

@ Thu, 11/11 8:51AM @59:20

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

loan, anton, lenders, deals, multifamily, interest rates, question, people, stephanie, inflation, bridge, lending,

financing, refinance, fannie, money, equity, jim, borrower, buy

SPEAKERS

Saundra, Sep Bekam, Jim Griffin, Stephanie Riley, Russ, Anton Mattli

@ Russ 00:02

Hey syndication mentoring club Russ here for a another edition of Ask The mentors for November 2021.
This one's on lending. And we have our two lending mentors with us in the residential one to four kind of
Small property where you qualify with your own debt to income ratios. is Stephanie Riley. Hey, Steph. Hi,
Chris. That's okay. That's alright. And that's probably a good thing, that if you're not speaking, you should
be muted. And then on the commercial side, we have Anton mattli from Peak financing. So let's say hello
to Anton. Hi, everyone. Alright, so, Steph, we've got a couple of questions. Can you see the roster of
everybody who is in in the session?

© Stephanie Riley 00:48

Yes,

@ Russ 00:48

just open up and click participants. So if anybody who asked a question Is there then let them ask their
question.

6 Stephanie Riley 00:55

Um, | don't think so. Saundra

@ Russ 01:04

Are you here. | saw her. Oh, okay. Yep. | don't | recognize her stage name here because it says SX. Yeah. |
don't know why that says that. Supercross Supercross to me, so Supercross is my favorite sport. Yeah, so

Gaiindra an ahead and ack waiir qaiactian
@ Russ 55:07

_)oO

Okay. And so Anton, same question for you. And then for both of you, just, you know, we had loan
forbearance pushed upon everybody along with eviction moratoriums, and we obviously all understand
eviction moratoriums, but, you know, | don't think the master faults that everybody was concerned about
happened, at least | haven't read about them. And so had Anton, have you seen? If you could kind of say
it's trending tighter, it's trending looser? Does it feel like they have, you know, abundant money to lend
and they're competing? Or does it feel like, you know, they're they're only interested in quality? And
everybody's kind of getting ready for a storm? If you if you could pick one? Which Which way do you think
the winds blowing? Yeah, |

55:50

would Say it's only the agency staff. Like they could lend much more if they could, right. So they are
limited by the the yearly bucket that they actually are allowed to lend. They have lifted the COVID debt
service requirements. So that's definitely a positive both on the Fannie and Freddie side. While they would
say however, it's only that they are now much more attentive to or aged receivables, right. So in the past,
very few lenders and the agencies asked for up to date aged receivables reports meaning a list essentially
a breakdown off of the various rents and tenants late it's essentially a rent roll that shows what is current
what is 30 days late, what is 60 days, late, 90 days late plus, so they have a clear understanding what the
actual outstanding receivables are. In the past, they haven't really dug in that much. And they are
definitely much more focused on this. At the same time. Also, on the other side, the accounts payables,
they are much more looking into that too, because obviously, there were a lot of PPP loans, and order
emergency loans that some of the borrowers took out. And some of them also did not pay their contractors
on time. So overall, they definitely look much close and read the operational side how the balance sheet
looks like.

Russ 57:30

Okay, well keep us posted. You know, | think one of the leading indicators of what is coming down the pike
is how healthy the credit markets are at the street level. And these are big investments, you know,
whether they're residential loans or commercial loans relative to the kind of loans you get made a student
loan or a car loan is small, relative to even a house loan, much less than Apartment Building Loan. And so
the underwriting guidelines and the looseness, or the tightening of the money can be a little bit of an
indication with the people closer, higher up the food chain, see coming. Because they're privy to
information and insights that we don't have, we just have to try to, you know, read the tea leaves a little
bit and be as proactive as we possibly can. So Anton, Stephanie, and Jim, thank you for being on the call as
our mentors. Thanks, everybody for attending. This thing will get posted up in the platform shortly. do us
all a favor, though, when you're going to be on these calls, take a few minutes and sit down and think
about your real world experiences. The questions that you have things you've read maybe in the paper, or
you know, online and things you've heard talking in your conversations that have confused you that you
don't understand, you're not sure what they mean. Or maybe you have an idea thesis you'd like to pose
Hey, | think that maybe this is what the tea leaves say to me. Does that make sense? Or am | dead wrong?
Or do you have a different opinion or whatever that makes for a lot more lively conversation, we're always
going to have a good call. But when you guys are coming with your real world experiences, then this calls
go from being you know, good, very good to being really, really great and useful. So appreciate
everybody's participation. And I'm not sure when I'm see you all again soon, hopefully, but if not enjoy
your while. I'm sure I'll see you on another estimators before Thanksgiving. But thanks, everybody for
being here.
of you can't see it if you want Anton report is multifamily at real estate guys. radio.com. And Jim's report is
private notes, plural private notes at real estate guys. radio.com. Okay, so, Sep, why don't you ask your
question?

@ Stephanie Riley 15:53

Everyone. So my question just is as far as the source of the capital for the lenders, Stephanie, and Anton
that you guys work with how resilient do you guys think your lenders are to market downturns now
compared to 2008 crash? Is the debt still securitized? Is there more securitization going on today
compared to before? Is it more resilient? Is it more fragile? | think | Know what Russell's answer is gonna be
on that but just kind of curious. You know what that's gonna look like during the next crash?

© Russ 16:29

Steph, why don't you go first?

© Stephanie Riley 16:32

Okay, so, | mean, I'm more in the weeds, obviously, than Russ is, as far as underwriting guides and
everything. And we're talking where I'm coming from what I'm seeing is the one to four residential stuff. So
this is a most of these loans that are originated are full doc, they're very, you know, these borrowers are
not getting as far out over their skis, if you will, as they were in 2008. And so from that perspective, from a
borrower's and like, what the loan, what quality of loans are, in these securitized packages, much, much
stronger than we were in 2008, for sure. On the bond market side, right now, you have obviously the Fed
tapering, but still coming in and buying a lot of those bonds. And so as they work their way out of that, is
there strength in the bond market and appetite in the bond market for people to come in and make up
that gap? Well, if inflation is headed, where it's headed, they're going to want to see yield. So there's a tug
of war there. And and | think that if anything, that's kind of the stuck place, obviously, the Fed in and what
do you do? And | think where the the weakness is, is that more the velocity of things slowing down?
Because if you're fixed at two 3%, on your residential mortgages, and inflation, and the Fed stepping out,
is bringing yields up, then who, you know that the challenge is if you move, and you get a new mortgage,
and now it's a higher rate, you don't want to do that, if you refi. Right. So there's that challenge there, in
terms of people getting locked in to this. And so it'll be interesting to see how, how they solve that. And
from an affordability standpoint, going forward. One thing | haven't heard talked about much, but | could
see is, in my mind, I'm thinking, Okay, how do you solve the problem of we've got interest rates that need
to rise to keep the bond market appetite there in the bond market, but you've got affordability and
unemployment and issues. So how are the borrowers going to keep on paying and, | mean, we've seen it
over the decades, but terms, right terms change. So if | need a higher yield on my money, | can keep you
affording to pay me more interest and give me that yield. If | extend that term from 15 to 30, to 40 to 50
years. So you already see that kind of getting talked about and in the works, so to kind of build stability in
for the borrowers to continue. Um, you asked about securitize? Yeah, | mean, what I'm dealing with is
Fannie Freddie. So yes, those are all securitized and sold on the secondary market and then traded on the
bond market. That's kind of what I'm seeing right now. You know, does the Fed taper and allow some pain
so then they have some room to backpedal. That'll be interesting to see too. But anyway,

@ Russ 19:57
paying cash for all those things, and that there's going to be mortgages, so the mortgage industry won't
look like what it is now, but it's going to exist in the interim, there's going to be it's gonna be very difficult
to get mortgages, property values are going to fall. And if you're in the right position, which | wasn't, | wish
| would have been, then that's a great time to go shopping. And even if you have to pay cash, if you have
faith, that that financing is going to come the equity will grow, the economy will, you know, stabilize,
they'll fix whatever the problems are, and then you can refinance back out again, because | just point back
to the central bank's commitment to buy billions of dollars of mortgage backed securities and pump that
money directly into the real estate market. | don't think that commitments gone anywhere, that's going to
continue to be there, both on the political side and on the banking side. So but you just need to make sure
that you're seeing what's coming in or position for all potential outcomes. The other thing is, there'll be a
lot of distressed real estate, if in fact that somebody does tripped over the cord, and all the air comes out
of the jump house, there's going to be a lot of deals and there's going to be deals not just on the property
side, but on the debt side. Because when there's not buyers there, people are going to be trying to get out
any way they can. And that's where understanding the private note business really comes in handy
because you can make a lot of money in private debt. If you buy it in a crisis. You just have to understand
what's going on and be a part of that world. So it's really glad that Jim's a part of our world. Wish he had a
better phone connection, but but that's okay. Glad that he's on the call. So, okay, well, | don't see any
other questions in the chat. Does anybody have anything at all they want to ask either Stephanie or Anton
or me for that matter? Or maybe Jim? Don't be shy. We don't have to take a full hour but you got us for an
hour if you want us.

&) Anton Mattli 44:47

JO

Hey, Russ, | got a question to socket. So | would love to understand that the two proposals that I've been
reviewing recently, one's a Fannie 10 year loan with a seven year prepayment for novelty, and the other
one is a Fannie seven year loan with a five year interest or a five year penalty. But listen to the
commentary just we just heard long terms better. But there's the exit strategy gets very challenging, the
longer we have the prepayment penalty for, right? So when you comparing these two options, how do you
look into it? And so maybe the question is more for you from from a from a multifamily. It's a it's a $15
million loan. So I'm kind of now wrap my brain around. | think I've already fixed the term on seven year
and fire interest five year prepayment penalty, but I'm trying to sort of wrap my brain around as | look
forward in other deals. How do |! how do! wrap my brain around? The question makes sense?

45:49

Yeah, sure. Obviously, with interest rates having dropped as much as they dropped over the last month,
it's no surprise that when you look at prepayment penalties, we call them in the in the space yield
maintenance, or defeasance, it doesn't really matter. The fact is that investors in these loans want to be
made whole meaning the difference between two days risk free rate yield for the down to the maturity and
the interest rate that the loan was fixed amount to have that difference being paid when you prepay that
long today. So a lot of deal sponsors that bought particularly in 2018, the interest rates in the four and a
half to 5%. They have still today with five years left and seven years left, they sometimes have 30% of the
loan amount that is a prepayment penalty, which lucky for them, sometimes they still can get out of these
deals with the profit because the the the property values have just exploded right. Now having learned
from that experience, obviously there are multiple strategies where you can say well, now interest rates
are so low, | do not believe that a deal maintenance issue will be aspect, the road as as it was for the
people that bought in 2018. So you need to look at that element. But if you say look, I'm just not
comfortable with with with yield maintenance or defeasance, you have a couple of options, you can go
fixed. And you can use a step down prepayment penalty with these with a Fannie. The Brahm is it comes
Sep Bekam 25:15

so | didn't, | didn't get my my like experience in 2008. | did start in 2011. But | did get the experience in
March 2020, when every single lender that | had in my rolodex just completely stopped. And, and | was
desperate for a loan to get some liquidity. So it definitely made me think that just never take it for granted.
Never just assume that just because it's shiny today, it's going to be shiny in a year from now. So you
know, when when Anton was talking about the bridge, and then the potential exit strategy, | just always
want to be mindful, what is the exit? Because that's the that's questions that the investor is asked to what
is the exit? How are we going to get out? What if we get caught in a downturn? So I'm just curious if the
lenders have learned their lessons, and if basically, what we can do as a syndicator Is just to make sure
that, you know, the, we're looking at all the variables that we're not just assuming that everything works
good in a bubble. Well, maybe that's not a good analogy that everything works, works, you know, good,
assuming everything's firing on all cylinders, right? What happens if we get cotton downturn?

 

© Russ 26:25

Yeah, | think that the lesson here, and | got the lesson in 2008. And this is why it's important for everybody
is just to understand that the further up the supply chain, for money, you can look, the quicker that you
can see a disruption in that supply chain and prepare, right people that have been paying attention with
the supply chain issues that were triggered when the lockdowns occurred when China took a lot of
manufacturing offline in 2020, those things are just now beginning to hit the market. In terms of shortages
in terms of shortage, shortage induced price hikes, in terms of containers backing up, when you hear all
the talk about the supply chain being disrupted, those are wheels that were set in motion a year ago. And
there's no way to stop what's coming. The question is, is do you how quickly do you correct the problems
so that the amount of time that you're in that wilderness, if you will, is shorter? And so it's the same
principle here? What Seth was trying to do is he's trying to look into the supply chain of money, saying,
Okay, | Know this comes from from the from Wall Street from people buying these securitize bonds, it's
either the private market, or it's the central banks. And the mother of all central banks is the Fed. And
we've talked many times about the Fed put, when it comes to real estate, they're buying mortgage backed
securities, we know the federal government took an implied backing of Fannie and Freddie, meaning that if
Fannie and Freddie went bust, they would. The implication was, they would get bailed out, but there was
no requirement under the law to do it. And there's still no requirement under the law to do it. But they did
it. And | think they let everybody know that they would do it. And now that that actually just turned the
party lights back on and refilled the Punchbowl. And everybody got out there and started doing the same
old, same old. So the challenge that we have in all of this is that most of most of being able to see the
supply chain, first of all, supposes that you even understand it, that you understand where the money that
the banker gives you comes from, you know, or the lender, where does that come from? And how do they
replenish that? And that's really the question Sep is asking. And then the next question is, is once you
understand that, what are the gauges, we can look at? What are the things that we actually can see that
are going to tell us that, that there's a disruption coming, the wind has shifted, you know, | just took my
granddaughters off to go see Mary Poppins. And even though the play wasn't the same as the movie, it
reminded me of the movie. And there's the scene where the captain is up there, the Old Navy captain is up
there, or the admiral. And he's, and he's talking about how the winds of change were blowing on 17 Cherry
Tree lane. And what we want to do is try to figure out when is the the winds of change blowing in the
lending market? When are we going to go from easy money to tight money, because the minute that
happens, it is a mad dash for everybody to reposition. And that's why the Fed is very careful to signal what
they're doing and tell people way in advance what they're doing, because they want people to have time
to absorb it to figure out what to do to make the adjustments. And of course, the only people who actually
do that are the people that are paying attention and can interpret it. So you're wise to ask the question
small transaction, you mentioned 1 million, then | would say you have a pretty good chance with a local
bank or credit union that you're willing to finance that for you. If | do not know where you live, you
mentioned Florida if you let's say live in the Midwest and you want to buy in Florida, that makes it much
harder because these local banks like to meet the borrower and also Want to have the comfort level that
the borrower is hands on on an ongoing basis, right. So that's for these, as we call them small multifamily
or small commercial deals, that typically, you have national lenders that cover that space, but they tend to
be much more expensive than the local banks and credit unions will be. Now when it comes to your
qualification, if you do not have net worth and liquidity, they typically in banks are a little bit more flexible
than an agency like Fannie and Freddie and CMBS. Lenders. Typically, for the larger lenders, they expect
that your net worth is equal or higher than the loan amount and your liquidity after the down payment,
after you close on the deal is roughly speaking 10% with the local banks there, they all tend to be more
flexible, particularly when it's a smaller deal. So it's on a case by case basis. Now, but certainly happens
with the larger deals like Fannie and Freddie and CMBS loans to want to see experience in that segment.
And if you do not have it, then you can partner up with someone that has that experience with the smaller
deals and that are financed with local credit unions and community banks. Very often, you don't need a
partner, as long as they feel comfortable with your financial strength, they trust that you have a third party
property management company that handles it for you. So it could value but very well be that a local bank
or credit union is willing to do it just for you, without any other partners, right. Once you get above that
level, typically a million and a half 2 million and the National lenders come into play, they definitely want
to have experienced partners.

© Russ 06:54

So I'm going to jump in too because Saundra, when you're first starting out, it's a lot. It's very tempting to
try to memorize all these underwriting guidelines and whatnot. And really your mission. And this is true for
all syndicators. And we talked about this actually on last night's Fast Start Session, because what happens
is people who come in who are used to you know, they're A students, they're used to knowing everything
about their complete experts in whatever they do. And then you try to do something big. And you can't.
You know, you they always joke about how the CEO can't figure out how to change a toner in the coffee
machine. That's because he's head can't be at that level, right? It's not disparaging the people who do
know how to do those things, the organization couldn't run without them. But someone has to be looking
at the horizon, somebody has to see the big picture. So when it comes to lending, out of everything that
Anton said, there's, there's like three or four things that you really need to know. One is, is that you need
to know Anton or somebody like Anton that you can call to get all the rest of the details. Okay. Number two
is if you've never done it before, you're going to have to have somebody on the loan, in the deal who has
experience. All right, that's the second thing. The third thing is the deal has to make sense, right? If you if
a deal isn't cash flowing, you're going to have a very difficult time getting a conventional lender, which
means that you're going to have to go non conventional. And this is kind of where it comes away from
Anton. But the idea is there's small commercial, there's community, and then there's agency. And the
agency money has to be underwritten to strict guidelines, because it's a huge secondary market
backstopped by these government agencies and they have to fit in the box and there's no negotiating, it
just is what it is. The small commercial are kind of like that, but they're typically securitizing not that the
other ones don't. And then at the commercial lender, some of these commercial lender, | mean,
community lenders will actually hold the loan in portfolio, then you have a little bit of flexibility. Sometimes
if you come in with a big deposit, and and they'll they'll you know, if you have other business, or you put
your float from your operations in their bank, they like that, that gives them capital they can lend, they
actually will leverage your deposit. And in some cases, you can bring enough money into deposit that you
create enough liquidity on their balance sheet that they can literally lend it back to you. It's crazy. But but
you don't have to understand all that. You just need to know that you'll learn it by doing. Yeah, and you're
just gonna need experience. But it all starts with a deal that pencils in a market that pencils. Okay,
