going broke. Corporate balance sheets are in disarray. If the Fed loses control of the bond markets, you know what
they call the bond vigilantes holding them accountable to printing too many dollars, and they're gonna want real
yields above inflation. And the feds already committed to 2% plus inflation yields have to be in excess of that, well,
that's a big increase from where they are right now, which means a big decrease in bond values on people's balance
sheets. So this may all sound like oh my gosh, is so hard to understand. It's not that hard to understand. But I'm
telling you, it's worth you learning that part of it because if you do, then you'll find that conservative investors who
are typically people that have lots of savings are going to be really interested in real estate debt backed by real
estate because of the yields. And because of the safety compared to the stock bond model. Main Street or Wall
Street cannot compete with Main Street if Main Street can learn how to tell the story properly. And of course, we
have to make it convenient, which is the whole purpose of the syndication program to raise up 1000s of you guys
who knows how to talk about it, and who can actually help people do it and get them out of wall street because Billy
what you're saying is exactly what's going on all over the place. And it’s what it should avoid tie but these people
have no idea what they're doing. They learned how to pass a test. And they went to work for a company. And they
rely upon analysts from way up on high to give them things to sell. And they don't, they don't know anything. And
some of them wake up and have a conscience like it and they leave. But a lot of them don't. And these people get
fined and they get, you know, accused of all kinds of malfeasance. And yet life just continues to go on. And people
continue to trust them, because there’s no alternative. But that’s why we're here. That's what this is about. So sorry, |
couldn't help it. Go on a little bit of a rant. We're actually at the end. Did somebody have one more thing? I'm going
to give you the time back because I, | rambled. JOHN, will give you the last word.

A) 1:00:43

| just want to share a book I'm reading right now, who not how it is so good, that | can’t stand it. | read a lot of books
who do not hide? Basically, the premise is, most people ask the question, how am | going to do this? | have a new
thing | want to do. This is about wrong question. Who am | going to find to work with me to get done what | need to
get done? fabulous book.

© Russ. 1:01:14

Awesome. Love it. Thanks

® Robert 1:01:15

for that.

© Russ 1:01:16

Okay, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much. That was really a good session. Again, you know, go out there in
the real world slop around, keep good notes about where you get stuck about when you didn't know what to say
when somebody stumped you when you felt embarrassed when you felt stupid. All the lessons are in the failures. And
in order for you guys to get the lessons collectively, like Billy, we have to be humble and come in and say, Hey, |
messed up, | need help. Because that way we can all go to work on it. And that's where that's where the real lessons
come from. So one reason | have you know, any qualifications to speak on this topic is because | have a long history
of screwing up. And I've learned a lot. So and you guys, that's that's how you learn. So anyway, Robert, any closing
thoughts?
© Russ 30:40

so it's kind of a, it's, it's almost has the opposite effect on a guy like me, I'm less trusting of it. But that part even
doesn't matter. Because at the end of the day, you know, if you're the real deal, and you're out there, holding yourself
out there for every person that alienates will open the door. That's why people do it. And as long as you are a good
person doing good business, eventually the brand will stand for something. And it will mean something. | think the
bigger danger that we see people make and maybe Robert has comments on this, because we've certainly gone
through this is people will pick a niche, or they'll pick a market. And then they'll name their syndication company off
whatever the first deal is, we had a guy who was doing a resort property, and he named it white sands. | suppose you
could, you know, do do C class apartment buildings in Memphis as white. But you know, so but | don’t think that in
the particular name you chose, that there's anything | think you do want to be prepared to explain to people what it
meant, you know, when | named my mortgage company, | spent a lot of time thinking about it. We named it catalyst,
because it reflected who | wanted to be, | didn't want to be the center of attention. | just wanted to be the guy that
made things happen. And | felt like money made things happen. So we named it catalyst funding, because you know,
the deal wasn't about the money, but you didn't do the deal without the money. Money mattered. And so we were
catalysts. And so that names always resonated, and the little logo was three, like ripples, kind of like the real estate
guys. Right? You put the pebble in the water, and then the river. So, you know, those are my thoughts? | don't know,
Robert, you got something?

© Robert 32:20

Yeah, a couple things. | like the name, | think the common part is actually great. Because sometimes with this type of
investment, people think you know, you got to be accredited, or you have to be a Sai flute in person. So | like that. |
think Grace is a great word. Even though it does have that leaning, | think it'll turn on more people than it turns off.
But Russ nailed the point that the name becomes what you make of it. So the URL availability, that's important, the
fact that you can stand behind it with any type of investment, that’s important, | think, the lesson to take away from
SAP, and he would share this, if he was here, he spent a year coming up with his name and add an inner circle
mastermind, we just basically put him on the hot seat, and within 10 minutes, we have the name. And you could have
seen the pressure just relieved was like, wow, like he just put all this thought. So you want to give it some thought, like
Russ did with catalyst. But what Russ did is he gave it some thought, put together a logo made business cards and
got out and did the work. So that's the most important thing. You know, rather than Well, | need to spend another
three weeks, you know, going through five focus groups to see which spelling of my name and which you want. Like
that's, that’s too much. So if you get the URL, if it’s a name, it’s it’s pretty, it’s generic enough. It's it’s agnostic to
product type. But | think it also has part of your story in it, which is great. So | think | think | wouldn't spend a lot more
time on it.

@) Scott Florida 33:50

Very cool. Actually, that was another piece of ceps advice. He said, Don't spend way too much time on this because

you just got to get after it. So it's

© Russ 33:59

good that SAP has been the king of overthinking good

@ Robert 34:02
because their IRAs and 401 K's are in the market. And so they are wanting to talk about what what do | think how
much risk is there, etc, etc. And earlier today, | actually had a phone call with one of them. And the investor
mentioned to me that the funds that they were looking to take out of the out of their IRA. Well, their financial advisor
said, Hey, listen, we're gonna protect you the cut, and we're gonna move you to bonds, we're gonna move you to so
so this is, so they moved them to move them to bonds. And they're going to be in bonds just until after the election.
And so when we were having our conversation today, he said, Well, yeah, you know what? They're actually we're in
high yield bonds. | said, Okay, well, that's really interesting. And so we were doing a zoom session, | said, well, and
what did they talk to you about high yield bonds? And they started explaining, | said, well, we're just going to do
something really quickly. How about we go to this look and see what investopedia says about high yield bonds. And
so we went there, and we used it. And when, when the investor read what high yield bonds were IE junk bonds, there
was kind of like, Well, why didn’t they tell me about this? Well, why didn’t they say this? And | said, Well, you know, |
don't have the answer. But you may want to go back and ask them, if they're going to do something that's more
defensive for your portfolio. Have them explain why they are actually moving in this direction. And and so the reason
| say that is one because we're talking about things and we're having more conversations, and even in that
conversation was able to say, Well, look, just because it sounds nice, like high yield bonds doesn't mean that it's

necessarily something that's risk free. Yeah. So that's

Russ 54:54

actually a topic call for the for the inner circle. Because it, Billy to your point, which is a good one. | think everybody
on this and everybody watching this should be aware we are we're at a pretty unique point in economic history. So
you know, we lost the dollar, the gold standard and the dollar in 1971. We went into pretty serious inflation
stagflation, where it rising prices and crushed economic growth, some of us are old enough to remember that. And to
get out of that, ultimately, Paul Volcker, the chairman of the Fed at the time, had a jacked interest rates way up over
20%. And of course, back then our balance sheet could withstand that because we were a creditor nation, not a
debtor nation, and we had a pretty good manufacturing economy instrument, we had real income, not foe income.
Today, that can happen. But what that did that reset gave us 40 years, more than 40 years of downward interest
rates, which is basically upward bond pricing. And we hit the bottom of that, just recently, meaning that bonds you
know, we got trillions of bond dollars in bonds all around the world, at interest rates below zero. And the only reason
people are buying interest rates at pay negative interest rates is because you're speculating you're going to go even
further down, meaning bid further up. So really, the front running the central banks who are printing money to
purchase these bonds at ever Higher, higher and higher prices in order to suppress interest rates, there’s no escape.
It's like, it's like an event horizon and a black hole. So for 40 plus years, financial planners go to place to go for safety
has been bonds, they've never worried about counterparty risk, they've really never worried about principal risk,
because bonds have always been stable or gone up in price. But that's no longer the case. Right now, real estate has
a lot to offer bond investors, especially the debt on real estate, you can track a mortgage, and what an investor gets
in terms of yield and safety with a mortgage. If they if not taking out a mortgage, but making a mortgage compared
to a bond. There's no contest. There's no contest, which means that if you put together a fund that was going to go
purchase real estate, and then use debt offerings, secured by real estate, you could make the same argument against
people who've been moved into bonds. Now if you if you look around and pay attention to the news as | do, you're
gonna find out that there are many people in the financial planning arena, and financial pundits and mainstream
media that are already calling into question the wisdom or or the continued efficacy of a 6040 bond stock or stock
bond. portfolio allocation. So asset allocation has typically been about 6040. Whenever a diversified portfolio, your
diversified portfolio, what does that mean? It means a split between stocks and bonds, and you overweight stocks or
bonds depending on if you're bullish, or you're bearish. But bonds are no longer a place to go for safety, which is
what this person instinctively realized, probably from reading the news and called Billy knowing that they weren't
going to get a bunch of Wall Street speak, they were going to get something different. And Billy wisely, tried not to
wax to brilliant, he went to a third party that wasn't trying to sell anything, and made the point. There's a perfect tee
up. So well played Billy, by the way. But there’s gobs of this opportunity out there right now. | mean so much. It's the
big, big, big story right now. Bonds offer counterparty risk, major corporations that you think had triple A credit are
© Russ 44:08

Yeah, I'm sure Robert has something to say on that. The best time

© Robert 44:11

in the world to talk to somebody when you do not have the deal because there's no awkwardness of when is he
going to ask for the check. And when is she going to put the paperwork in front of me when you're just talking to
folks about the hypotheticals, which you'll get deeply into, and how to win funds and influence people. But you're
getting a conversation with someone that has no obvious outcome, the outcome is you will learn more about them
and then learning more about you and that’s great. | mean, it's great to have past case studies. Here’s some of the
things we've done in the past. These are all fully funded. This is all done just to give you an idea, right? But let me
learn about you risk tolerance and how much time and what do you after and right just get to know about them and
when you have the deal. Now it's kind of this thing and eventually It's great, because that's what they want, they
want the deal. But when you're starting out, especially as you're building your list, the less pressure there is of any
kind on the prospect, the better. So it's like, well, let me show you the deal. We only have, you know, $200,000 left.
And now there's this this sales thing. And if that's your situation, you deal with it. But | think a great time to talk to
people is before you have a deal, you know, I’m ending on right now, | don't have any active deals right now. So
that's not what this is about. This is about me understanding, could we be a match? Is there a way we can provide
service to you in a way that’s going to help you.

© Staci Gray 45:32

And sometimes it's not even direct, sometimes it could be indirect. So you could be talking with somebody who's
maybe a homebuyer, and they're like, I'm not really interested. But | work. I'm a financial advisor, and | work with all
of these people, and all these people are interested. So there could be a lot more opportunity. It's not always one to
one in terms of the person you're talking to. It’s going to be the person who invests,

© Russ 45:55

yeah, you always have to look at every person you're talking to. So they're connected to at least 10 people, and at

least two of those people are going to be substantial influencers. And you want to get to them.

© Craig Kamman 46:05

Sorry, it’s all about building the relationship. How do you recommend keeping that relationship going with these
contacts? Are you building email list? Are you?

© Russ 46:17

Yeah, that's a great question. That's called having a nurturing program. And you have to have one, which means you

always have to know what the next step is. And it’s not your you're going to have multiple paths you can go on right,

you're going to have people that are, you know, low hanging fruit, they're influencers, they have substantial net worth,
you really bonded with them, they really liked you, they had a high level of interest, you're probably going to favor
more personal contact, you might invite them to go someplace with you invite them to a book study, a conference,
maybe something social, Robert used to love to take our top clients to concerts, he would just go out every year, and
he'd buy 50

Robert 46:56
member concerts, those are great. Yeah, | buy like $50,000

Russ 47:00

worth of concert tickets, and he just, you know, just strategically pick people to go, you know, and of course, the
people who went were the people that were most likely to turn into a really key relationship, other people might end
up ona phone list that you you know, call on a rotation. So maybe you time block for hours once a week, and you do
nothing but dial just, you know, stick what | call sit call, stay in touch, you sit on your list, you call them up your new
like, Hey, you know, Joe, Long time, no talk or you know, just start a touch base with the CEO, things are going, you
know, and, you know, it may seem like, Well, I'm not really that way. Well, once you start being that way, with those
people, that's the way you are, and they expect it, right. And just because you're that way with them doesn’t mean
you're that way with the other 1000 people on your list, there may only be 100 people on your list that you're that
way with, right so that’s a decision you make the other people maybe get an email, and you may even segment your
list further. You know, after you get involved with these conversations with people in any salesperson knows this, you
keep detailed notes, you profile, the person that you're talking to you find out what they're interested in their
birthday, their anniversary, their wife’s kids, what sports teams they follow, you know, what kind of food they like,
what kind of vacation, just anything, anything at all. And whenever you think of any find anything in your travels,
where you feel like it would be a way for you to show Hey, | was thinking about you, | saw this recipe | thought you
might like | read this article that | thought you would find if | met this person, you may want to watch this YouTube
video really informative. Just a way to say, Hey, I'm thinking about you, | care about you. And you don't want to
overplay it. But you find a way to do it. And then and then you may take a group of people that you're not going to
really have interactive content with because you don't think that it’s there, but you You never know, you don't want to
throw them away. So you put them on your email list. And you maybe categorize them. These are people that are
interested in this topic, these are people interested in this topic or that topic, you may send something out to
everybody that's got a little bit of everything in it. And then you may send out things to subsets of the list, this list
gets bigger, that are very specific about something that you've learned about them. And obviously, you know, you
always want to try and bridge without being so obvious that it makes it sound like it’s always about business but
obviously you know you you're going to have a professional relationship. So yes, you won't have a personal
relationship with them. But you know, they're not stupid. | mean, you know, especially wealthy people, they get
everybody in their brother, all trying to be their best friend with their handout. So you need to make sure you don't
look like that stereotypical glad hander that is just trying to get in their pocket book. You know, you want to go out of
your way to prove you're not that person. If you can do that make sense. It doesn't want to add to that.

Staci Gray 50:01

| just want to say | know that the sales and marketing call. And if that seems cumbersome, just know there's a lot of
ways that you can automate lead scoring so you can track who is hot and who's not. So you know who to call and
when. And then you can still feed on automate the relationship side of it like the one to one conversation side, but
you automate enough so then you make sure that you stay in touch and you're staying in touch with the right people,
not just calling somebody that just opens your emails, but has nowhere with all to even grow with you or anything.
not telling you, you know, because you have to, | mean, if they, if you set the table that way, and then they look at
what you're offering, and you're offering, you know, every every deal is, is in one neighborhood and places and it's
not going to come across. So again, I'm not saying this is what you should do. I'm just saying that when | looked at
your resume, and | thought, well, if | was trying to sell you, and | was trying to brand you, what is there that | have to
work with? And that was one of the things just leapt out at me that | didn’t really see any light shining on. So it’s, it's,
you know, more of a question, in terms of where you are, where you're going, if you plan to use that, because | think

it's an asset or at least has the potential to be an asset if you develop it. To make sense.

A 15:57

Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. And | think that is also just branding, it's one of the things that I've probably struggled
with just the and thanks for for providing that that feedback is greatly appreciated. | guess maybe that's the humble
part of the of the sales guy being a Midwestern kid. And so you've done a lot of things. And there was a certain point
in my life where there was backlash, because | was doing so many more things than other people. And I've just kind
of maybe shut that down. And | don't really put it out there as much. But at the same time, when thinking about the
sales and marketing and being able to share with other people, it is something that | need to put, put, put more of a
focal point on and do it in a way that feels comfortable to me as well.

G) Russ 16:42

Well, | think | think, you know, hopefully everybody can see this, that you know, your your executive bio, in the context
of the business that you're building and the avatar that you're serving, they all fit together. And if you're not clear on
any one of those components, then your writing is going to be trite or ambiguous. And |, you know, it's going to, it's
just going to be a Me too. And what you really each of you want to look at is what do you have to work with? It’s
unique, you know, | know a little bit about you, john, you've got an education in law. | would love that. | know, you
didn't do it as a profession, but it’s still an aspect of your education. You know, and Craig, | don't know anything
about you. But when you're when you're going to put your, your bio together, think about what makes you a unique
human being what what unique life experience skill sets, experiences, educational. And it's not just each one of those
components. But there's a mix of those components, | believe lived long enough to do I've done a lot of different
things. And so I'm the kind of this unique blend of a person. And you know, and not that I'm special, like everybody
else is in a unique blend of a person. But I'm unique in that nobody has the same life experience, education, or skill
set that | have. And it’s true for each of you. The question is, is can you figure out a way to communicate that to
people in such a way that it inspires them to trust you in terms of your competence, your ethics, your capability, your
commitment, and hopefully in alignment of compatibility with who they are. All right. So that's a little bit of rambling
from me, somebody makes us appreciate it. Yeah, no, sure. We don't need to shift topics just yet. If anybody has any

questions, or thoughts, or maybe you're thinking about yourself now and want to stay on the same thing, john,

A 18:38
when you mentioned the word avatar, and I'm thinking of Donald Miller's story brand, and I'm wondering, in this
question, I'm wondering if there is no meaning singular executive file, or if there’s executive BIOS. In other words, this
is what | put out to bankers. This is what | put out to potential investors. This is what | put out to peers. So you can hit
the key topics.

© Russ 19:10

Yeah, so the short answer is absolutely 100%. Yeah. Brilliant, and good on you to figure that out. Yes, you have to
for me, because I'd written you know, resume, I'd applied for a job, I'm 19 years old, or whatever | was, and | wrote a
three or four page, you know, resume or in a lot of it was a bunch of pros. And | thought it was brilliant, right? | told
everybody everything they ever would want to know about me. And of course, it was completely ineffective. And she
looked at it, and she shredded it. And she took it down to just bullet points and took the dates out, | hid the fact that
| was young and inexperienced and made it sound like, you know, | was absolutely brilliant. And then she coached
me up on how to do the interview, and act much older than | was, and | got the job. That was, you know, again, one
of those very unique experiences | had in life, where early early, early on, | recognized that it wasn't the content, it
was the packaging. Packaging was way more important, right, | was the same person. But she packaged me up in a
way that somebody actually wanted to pull me off the shelf and put me in their cart. And that's what | was after.

© Robert 23:34

The mission part is, well, you know, that's context. So on your website, you probably have the mission of the
company, which is independent of the bio of the folks involved. But if you're trying to say in a short period of time,
this is who Billy is. And this is what the company is about, to Ross's earlier point about not making your bio all about
you which sounds ironic, since a bio is by definition all about you. But it’s all about you in context of how you serve
you had some of that in your bio, you enjoy helping you know people figure out what's most important to them,
those kinds of things, but to weave that mission in their you know, your mission either resonates with people or
doesn't and if it does, that's very strong. You know, that's why you put family and personal things in there because
that resonates with people makes you human. Having a mission makes you Superman.

© Russ 24:27

And remember what you're doing you know, you're not telling someone the whole story, you're giving them pieces of
a puzzle and you're letting them have the pleasure of putting the puzzle together and seeing the you you want them
to see. And when they connect the dots when they build the puzzle. It's it’s not sales pitch, and they're there they're
actively engaged in the process. So you're always always always putting clues out about who you are what you stand
for. And you know, you don't have to be great quite as thorough it's okay to leave a little bit of gap don't not too big
of a gap, because otherwise people's imagination can't close the gap or they won't put the work in. But obviously to
Robert's earlier point, depending on the context of where this appears, and who you're writing to somebody who is
contemplating putting 100,000 200,000 a million dollars into a deal, they're going to be really focused, they're going
to be thinking about, you know, what they're reading and what they're hearing, and they're going to do some
homework, somebody who's, you know, thinking about whether they're going to go to your breakout session or five
other people, they're going to give it like, you know, a half a second thought, they're just good, they're, they're going
to have a feeling and then that's what they're going to move on. So it's a, this is a little bit of work, but it's not so
much work. Because of the writing, even if you went and hired a professional writer, the work is figuring out, really
that vision that you want to paint of who you are. And then from there, you pick out the pieces of what you have to
work with. And then you pick out out of what you have to work with what you want to put in. And sometimes what
you find out is you realize there's some really important things missing. And in that case, that’s where the team thing
really comes in, you have to emphasize the the parts that are missing by who you're associated with who you have
on your team. And remember, this is an executive bio, which means you're positioning yourself as an executive, that's
somebody who executes. And so that that also, | mean, you covered that, | think, pretty well. But again, more from a

sales standpoint. Anyway, okay, anybody else on this one topic?

26:37
So before you go on, just thanks very much. | appreciate the input the questions, and | will continue to do the work
and get the get the feedback and get it. Get it even better.
_)oO

JO

you know, one man bands, they go out there? And yeah, they represent a brand, but the they they instinctively tried
to differentiate themselves based on who they are. | know because | did it for years. Does that make sense?

11:02

Yeah, it does resonating with me again. All right.

Russ 11:05

So if you think of Kiyosaki cashflow quadrant, and the s and the B, you're writing like an S. And one of the things you
want to learn to do is put yourself in the mindset of a B, because you're a brand ambassador. So what you want to
do is, you know, as a brand ambassador, you talk about what your business does for the client. And then when you
talk about yourself and your executive bio, you talk about what you do for the business. That makes sense. It does, it
does the business. So it's just subtle. In the beginning, because you're a one man band, you and the business are
synonymous in your thinking in your minds, when you write from the heart, it’s going to come out. That's why before
you start to write, you got to shift your mindset. You know, be who you're becoming, think about being that be being
a brand ambassador, that your business serves the clients and that you serve the business. Salespeople serve their
clients. So that that’s the sudden shift. It's, it's because remember, you know, we talked about this in the sales training
and also in secrets of successful syndication. That persuasion is about positioning. And so your bio is all about
positioning just like in the three step sales process. Step one is, is set the table. And so you know, your bio, and this
whole thing of getting to know you this is all about table setting, you have to ask yourself, what kind of a table Am |
trying to set what type of a picture Am | trying to paint of who | am, because that's, that’s what this is about. So it is
about you. That's why you have to really get clear about who you are, when you write. Alright, um | think it was good,
you got some personal stuff in there married kids, where you live, | think that's great things you enjoy makes it human
all that's great. | think one of the area's | felt like you had a big missed opportunity, though. And | didn’t even know
this about you, which | think is great. But remember who you're writing to, you're writing to prospective investors. And
so you have to think about what's really important to an investor. And | think one of the things that you bring in also
the context of of all the things that are, you know, important to an investor, what what things are, perhaps make you
different than, you know, every Tom, Dick and Harry and Harry yet out there. You with me?

13:39

To include those or? Well, the

Russ 13:43

thing is try to figure it out, right. So what | saw is one of the things that an investor could and should be thinking
about is diversification. And what you have is you have experience in 80 countries, you speak five languages, you
have the opportunity to offer an investor a diversification that most other people can't offer because they're not
International. | mean, you know, Simon black is built a whole thing, kind of pivoting off of what Doug Casey but he
learned from Doug Casey but a whole thing about being a sovereign man planting multiple flags about having
diverse interest bank accounts, different currencies, real estate teams, all in different places. And, and you really
don't talk about that. So some of the stuff you talk about, you do like you care about your clients, | mean, all those
things are important, but everybody cares about their clients. So the big thing is what makes you special, what
makes your brand special, what makes your mission, your vision, your values special, How are you different and |
think you have an opportunity to, to to to talk about how you're uniquely qualified to build diverse teams in diverse
geographies and provide a level of diversification in real assets, most of the people can't do. Now, that's just me, I’m
JO

okay, well, it’s it, this type of a forum doesn't really lend itself to it. So I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it. But |
am going to I'll throw it up on the screen real quick and see if | can figure that out. | believe that that is sorry, | can't
see. We're gonna call it that one. All right. Are you looking at Billy's bio? So give me a yes. Scott's giving me a thumbs
up. Okay. So um, first of all, | am definitely not the God of this. So you know, what comes out of my mouth isn't
gospel, | have my preferences and opinions. And so what | do is |, when I, whenever | look at anything, I’m looking to
judge in terms of its writing, | just go for my first gut impression. You know, most people who are reading aren't
reading it with a critic sigh. They're not reading it through any filter. And typically, they're not even thinking about
what they're thinking about. They're just feeling. So if that makes sense. So the first thing that | just felt right out of
the gate, when | looked at it was it's long, that was the first thing | thought long. So | think that there's a way to trim
it down. But to me, you know, every word counts, you don't need the same ideas more than once. If you do that, it’s
usually because it's a really, really important point that you're trying to make. And so while I'm talking | hope all of
you are able to kind of read along and just as you're reading, you know, kind of ask yourself, what is it that you are
feeling? How do you feel? Does it make you feel what you know, when we talk about how you're supposed to feel?
Remember everything in in in building your brand is about building goodwill. So it's about trust. It's about you know,
in terms of ethics, and in terms of competency, those are the two main things the other subsets of those you have to
think about or whether you have commitment, whether you have capacity, you know, whether you have what | call
compatibility kind of an alignment of what it is you are trying to do or who you are, where you're going is, is that
going to be in common with the person you're trying to communicate with, and | don't really look at it as a pitch, like
you're trying to convince somebody to do something with you, | look at it more as a presentation of who you are, it's
bait, and it'll attract the right people. And if it doesn't attract some people, that’s fine, because it oughta repel the
wrong people. And it doesn't mean they're bad people, it doesn't mean you're bad, it just means it’s not a match. So
you're not looking to win people over. You're looking to test compatibility. So before | ramble on, does anybody have
any thoughts or comments just on that? And don't be shy?

05:56

Actually, | have, | do have a comment based on what you're saying. So it makes a lot of sense. And one of the things
that | was getting ready to say before it did not say is, it still feels a little bit long for me. So you hit on that right
away. And it's a matter of being able to continue to work on being more concise, and bringing out the relevant things
to attract the right people, as you said, so that that first feeling is one that | share even ever having worked over it a
couple times.

Russ 06:23

Yeah. And so | mean, there's some things | took a green highlighter and went through and | highlighted some words
that | thought were really good like you, you know, he brings | like the word bring, it’s like an offering is when you
bring to the table is opposed to has or just some boring word, you know, you're bringing something to the party,
consistently achieving that, he said, two things that | thought were important, and you talked about teams, and I'm a
big fan, when you're doing an executive bio, of talking about team, because, you know, anybody that is
understanding that you're trying to do something of scale, you're trying to do something important, where the stakes
are high, if you don’t have a team, and you don't come across as a good team leader, then you know, you might be
Superman, but people are going to, you know, maybe instinctively and maybe even cognitively be a little concerned
that they're betting, you know, on a one man band, so | thought that that was good. So you know, | mean, | think
there's some things you could clean up in the first part of it. But you know, | don't want to get too far into the weeds.
The second, or the third sentences when working amongst these geographically diverse and often complex business
arenas. Billy excels blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, | took that entire sentence. And | felt like that was actually
redundant to what you'd already said. You know, it, maybe you were putting it in there to kind of embellish or make
the point. But | think you'd already said it. You already talked about, you know, 80 countries, you'd already talked
engineer, right? So he analytical by nature, Russell's analytical by nature. So people that are analytical spend, you
know, spend a lot of time analyzing, and you got to have some of that. But at the same time, you know, you don't
have a name, it’s really hard to do business. That's where Seth was, he literally was raising money. And people would
ask him the name of his company and say, well, so I've got a couple names I'm working on. Like that does not instill
confidence. Like the project is solid. | know where | know where the property is. | just don't know the name of my
company. | mean, so you know, make sure something you get behind and then get find it and be slow to change. be

slow to change. There's not a lot of reason for companies to change their names unless there's an outstanding
reason. Okay.

© Russ 34:49

Yeah. You're you're new to the club. Welcome. You got your first time coming to one of these things. So we're enjoying
the fact that we're still fairly new Tiny and can be somewhat intimate. But you came up come with a particular
question, you just came to be a fly on the wall, what what's going on, I’m

© Craig Kamman 35:08

just starting out digging into the material. So Stacy, I'm kind of going through the recorded videos that you've done
about organization, I've got a property management company, realtor, I'm juggling a lot of things at once I'm trying
to get systems in place, so | can focus on this. And Russell, | think it's a | got the syndrome you have, I've got to call it

control issues, | have a hard time letting go of things. So. So that's kind of my battle right now, I'm not quite to the
sales and marketing on it. Which | kind of got to have that foundation laid first. So

© Russ 35:48

Well, | mean, it's an operational thing. But we cover that in some of the videos, there's a process for getting things off
your plate, and you start with the stuff that is, you know, the low hanging fruit, the stuff that you hate to do that
you're no good at. But if it doesn't go well, it doesn’t really matter that much get that get rid of that right away, and
you'll you'll buy up a lot of time that you can put to more productive use. Okay, so what else sales and marketing

space you have any comments, or any ideas that have come up from today, or through your experiences the last
week or two last month since we did this last?

&) Staci Gray 36:24

Not particularly. Um, | actually do have a question, though, Billy, did you get your funnel set up? from our last
conversation?

36:35

And it's still an open item? So

© Russ 36:42

it's either a y or an N below that we know. Yeah.
Jo

JO

36:46

So the So the answer to the question is no, however, we have a redesign of what we're doing. Because there there
was, instead of just building one funnel, we're actually there, basically, three years worth of content. And so instead of
focusing on one funnel, we're actually taking an approach to say, Okay, we have all these assets. And rather than just
focusing on doing one thing now, how can we actually organize and utilize the assets that are already existing and
making sure that we're creating the right journey? For the person that comes in? Because that was one of the things
that we talked about before was okay. Create the journey, not just do the funnel, but take them through that? So

know that the answer is no, it but we're working on something that will provide more value is the idea.

Russ 37:33

So yeah, and | think that, and | don't exactly know, Stace, what, what you and Billy were talking about, but it does
bring up this concept in sales and marketing. It's also a process from first, you know, impression to where they first
see your brand, hear your name. And there's all different ways that that happens to at whatever point where you
actually have some form of communication with them, that hopefully leads to some form of an engagement and
along the way, and | like that. | don't know what word you journey, | think you said, Yeah. But it’s almost like an
adventure. It's like dating. It's an exploration. It's getting to know someone, it should be fun. It should be enticing. It
should be interesting. You know, your mission is to make yourself your brand, your team, your markets, your deals. Be
a storyteller. It's one of Roberts great skill sets. Robert. Robert. Robert, when you come on to summit, Billy, you've
been on the summit, you're the only one

38:30

| was supposed to go there. Not yet, when you

Russ 38:33

see Robert do the logistics meeting where he is telling you about everything you need to know to actually get from
the hotel to the ship, which is the most boring topic ever. And you've got all kinds of things, you know, challenging
you for your time. And he gets up there. And he goes for 45 minutes and is totally captivated. It's It's amazing. But
he's telling stories, and he's telling jokes. And it's, | mean, | tell you, | mean, | know next year, we're not going on a
cruise ship, but it’s actually going to be one of the things we're going to miss is the pre boarding briefing. I'll come up
with something, I'm sure I'm sure while we still have to make it you know, from depending | guess what we're gonna
do, we're not doing anything on the hotel, right? We're just all converging in beliefs. Anyway, that’s a whole different
discussion. | think the lesson here though, in sales and marketing is that you do want to make whatever whatever you
know, in investor Development Program, or programs that you have, you want to make them an adventure, you want
to make it, you want to make it fun. You want people to look forward to the next email, you want people to look
forward to the next deal. If you're informing them about your market or you're preparing them. And you know, you
guys follow us. | mean, obviously we pivot off the news quite a bit because that way we don't have to come up with
new content. The world takes care of that for us. All we have to do is interpret it And make it relevant to who we're
talking about. So if you're feeling like, Hey, | don't, | don't know what to talk to people about, | don't know how to get
a conversation started, | don't know how to write anything, or forward anything, or comment on anything. That would
be interesting to anybody. You know, you have to be having individual dialogues with people, it's one of the things
we're missing right now is we don't get to go to many trade shows. That's why, you know, if you can get together and
even just lead little groups where you're getting in a conversation with people, even if you never do any business with
them, you're learning. You're learning how to communicate, you're learning about what's interesting to them, and
October 2020 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales
and Marketi...

@ Wed, 10/6 4:06PM © 1:02:21

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, billy, bonds, thought, investor, bio, question, conversation, business, means, deal, put, building, important, real estate,

big, sales, robert, marketing, point

SPEAKERS

Russ, Robert, Scott Florida, Craig Kamman, Staci Gray

JO

Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ and we're here for another Ask the mentor session. This one is sales and
marketing, right? sales. Yep. Okay, so sales and marketing and we and Roberts joining us, which is awesome. And we
have a good crowd of people, we only had one pre submitted question from Billy, and it's kind of a big one. So before
we delve into that, | wanted to see if anybody here brought anything to the party that we can shoot through real
quick. John's coughing. Okay, so going once. All right, I'm going to just like that go on. So Billy, it's going to be the
Billy keel show for for this session. And | don't really | think have a good way to put this up. So this is, let's see if | can
figure out how to do this. | should have had this ready to go. Stace, do you happen to have the email that went with
this invitation? Yeah. Okay, why don't you send that to me. So it's top of box real quick, rather than have me dig
around for it. So here's the short of it. This is an exercise that we do. It's actually one of our more favorite ones in
inner circle. And that is this bio exercise. And so what Billy did was he submitted his what he calls his executive bio,
and he wanted to get kind of review on it. And so this is a really important topic. And so Billy, well, I'm waiting for

that to show up. Do you have any color you want to add to, to your your discussion here?

01:59

So | guess aside from being extremely nervous about this, at the same time, | did want to take and well, | guess just
it's just we're amongst friends here, right? So after the summer, I'd gone through a couple of iterations because I'd
had a an executive, | guess, bio, that | called. And | wasn't really comfortable after we went over that in the summer
with one of the summer meetups that we did, virtually. And I've been working through it. And the idea is, of course, |
want to, | want it to share it, and we'll share it as well. But | thought Listen, because this is about sales and marketing.
One of the things that | really want to feel comfortable about is having a good critique of my executive buy on so |
went through it, | reworked it, and | still feel like it’s well | have some thoughts about it, maybe not say what | what |
think about it, but | just wanted the feedback, because | know that this is going to be something that will be helpful.
Being able to talk about the skill set that | have and more importantly what how | believe | can help my investors. So

okay, I'm just wide open for it. And whatever, all critiques will be well accepted. So

@ Russ 03:05
© Scott Florida 50:36

You have software that you recommend for tracking relationships and information on clients.

@) Staci Gray 50:45

Yeah, well we use is Infusionsoft and we've actually just started incorporating the lead scoring aspect of it for several
syndicators. And it seems to be working pretty well in terms of knowing who's hot for them to call and who's not. And
then also, one thing that we do is if somebody is traveling to a specific area, we pull up everybody who is in that area
to see if they want to be have lunch with that person, call that person that meet with them in person. So it gives you
a lot more opportunity to build, use this use the software system to have the face to face or phone conversations.

Russ 51:26

For me, | think when you start out, just grab a ring binder and put pages in it, start writing, because you're not going
to have that many people in the beginning doesn't need to be a big expensive technological challenge. | mean, just
use old school sales, write down their name, write down the phone number, how you met them. And then you know,
keep a contact log, every conversation, and then what you know. And then as you learn, then you can move on to a
list, you can put them into a piece of software, that's fine. Ultimately, you're probably going to end up with something
like a Salesforce or act or goldmine or something where you can, you can put detailed profiles in. But you got to get
pretty big when we met Ken McElroy. He had 60 investors, six, zero, and he was already huge. But they were you
know, one of them was Robert Kiyosaki. So how many Robert Kiyosaki Do you need, right? But this is not a mass
marketing business. That's not what this is, you can do really, | mean, Buck, Joffrey is raised $200 million. His list is
about 1000. So you can

® Staci Gray 52:35

JO

also do the you keep track, like he’s saying on a piece of paper, and then just use your calendar. So when you have a

conversation with somebody put it to do in your calendar to call them on a specific date.

Russ 52:48

Yeah, keep it simple in the beginning, because it's you don't have to worry about scaling that side of it. In the
beginning, just get out there and marketing to people. Get some deals going.

Scott Florida 53:02

| have another question. Bill, you sound like you had something you were gonna bring up? Well, it’s

53:06

just one thing | wanted, | wanted to mention, because Russ was asking him about in conversations that we're having
with people in the news, and just wanted to share something because | found it really interesting that I've from

previous investors that are in retirement, we've seen we seem to be having many more conversations recently,
JO

know who you're talking to. You're gonna write differently to your bankers and you are to an investor to somebody
that's managing a family office to a mom and pop. Depending on what kind of a deal you're putting together, you
may decide to focus on one thing or another, I'm getting an internet unstable warning stays, you might want to hit
the record button just to make sure. Yeah, no, you definitely want to do that. And they're like arrows in your quiver or
tools in your toolbox. And then you just need to know which one to pull out and which one goes. goes where,

Robert 19:50

| think also a point on that it’s super important that they're congruent. Assume someone's going to see them all. They
probably won't, but assume so. So When you say here, and then here, it’s like, wait a minute, right? It doesn't fit. I'm
sure you've seen that happen. The other thing is, sometimes it’s a space issue, you write a wonderful bio, that you
would put on an executive summary where someone's thinking about putting $100,000 in your deal, they're gonna
want a more, no more details about you, your background, your education, your history, that's great for something
like that. But sometimes you need a short intro, we were just at the New Orleans investment conference. And a lot of
the speakers submit a bio. And some BIOS are two lines long, and some BIOS are, you know, five paragraphs, and as
the MC about to announce somebody, we've got to cut it down to just hit the high notes. So better you do that, then
leave that to a third party to decide what's important. So what's typical in the speaking business, which isn’t the
business, you're necessarily unless you're doing a lot of that is that you've got the 22nd bio, the minute bio, and the

four minute bio, depending on who your audience is.

Russ 21:03
Yeah, excellent. And that's

Staci Gray 21:07

one thing in his bio, that | didn't see, or maybe | missed it. And | don't know how much of this should be incorporated
in an executive summary bio, or just even a marketing a random bio is the mission, like the purpose of really why
you're doing what you're doing. Because a lot of what was in there was your past success or characteristics that
describe you in a stationary sense, but not in a movement, this is where I'm going, you want to be a part of that type
of thing.

21:39

You know, in. So even having gone over this, and | started with something else, you're you're right, because | kept
thinking about what what you know, what we're talking about, which was when you're when you're selling the well
not selling, but when you're projecting into the future, you need to use the future or, you know, to move in that
direction, not talk about what | had done. At the same time, | was struggling to figure out how do | talk about
relevant historic information, which is, which is a part of who | am, that will also help move forward. So | did struggle
with that. And | guess this kind of feedback is good. And I'm completely open to it, which is why it's

Russ 22:20

great. It's great, it made for a great topic. So and you know, and it's a skill set. | mean, it’s a real art form. And, you
know, if you feel like, Hey, I’m just not gifted in this area, then hire somebody to do it. When | went got my very first
job, you know, | didn't know anything about this. But | knew that | didn't know and | hired a gal to write my resume
then pivot off the news. So has anybody been getting into any conversations with people in your world? | mean,
obviously, there's a lot going on with lock downs and this big political cycle. ls anybody having success getting into
conversations with prospective investors about what's going on? No,

© Craig Kamman 40:59

yeah, well, go ahead, Billy. Okay, | just in my line of work, I'm a realtor. So | get in the conversations of market and
what's going on? are we heading into, you know, is there going to be a crash coming up? Explain why the residential
market, why there's multiple offers on these properties and prices keep going up. Yet the economy, you know, you've
got retail, you've got restaurants, the travel industry is all crashing, you know, the two worlds don’t make sense. So
people are asking, you know, my opinion on it. And, you know, I'm always seeking that market information. So it’s a
natural conversation to get into, and | think people are looking for answers.

@ Russ 41:45

They're bringing it up. Yep. Yeah. Now, do you have a way to begin to bridge them to the idea of buying more? |
mean, are you a realtor like a residential? Real Estate talking to homebuyers?

© Craig Kamman_ 41:58

Yeah, so I'm in a very unique market position. It's a long story, but | do the residential, you know, houses, but | also do
commercial development, new construction. So we have one world, you know, I'm right by the Mall of America, that's,
you know, in one of the three months behind on payments, the local mall just went into default, went from 93 million

down to 9 million and auction, you know, value dropped like a 90% drop in value. Yet residential, single family, you

know, we're, we're going up about 10% a year right now or higher. It the two worlds just don’t connect, they're
completely disconnected right now.

@ Russ 42:40

Yeah, so one of the things you might do if you're not already doing it as practice, but trying to turn the conversation
from buying a home, to becoming an investor, a passive investor. Think about questions, you could ask statements,
you could make bait, you could put in the water, so to speak, and see if they bite. They don't, they don't. But just play
with it. Because they say learn. Don't wait until you know what to say you you won't you'll learn by doing. Just play
with it. Have fun with it. And then and then one of my favorite disciplines, especially for salespeople, especially early,
when they're learning a new product, or learning a new avatar, whatever is after an engagement, sit down and take
out a piece of paper, old school and write down what happened, what you learned. If you could go back and do it
over again, what would you say differently. And you do that a few times. And pretty soon, you just get momentum.

And pretty soon you're you're rolling, and things will start to happen. But you have to be talking to people. This is a
business of engagement.

(s) Staci Gray 43:46

Yeah, and one thing that | seen a lot of syndicators do is, especially new ones not want to talk to anyone until they
have a deal. And oftentimes, that’s not wise to start the conversations and kind of get the experience and learn. And
then when you do have a deal you have people to go back to and have conversations with.
© Russ 26:48

Yeah, thank you, we appreciate it. Because you give us something to talk about. And you set an example for
everybody else, I'm guessing everybody on here is a little bit more inspired to go to work on your, on your bio, now
that you've been through this. So if you got nothing else out of that, that alone was was worth the attendance
because this is a very, very important part of what you do painting the picture of who you are. Okay, so we didn't get
any other pre submitted questions. Scott, you're always good for a question sales and marketing, you have one?

@) Scott Florida 27:17

Actually, | do. And again, just thanks, Billy, that was great, it was really helpful to first of all, appreciate your
vulnerability, the put yourself out there like that. And then also, just the feedback was great. And I'm looking forward
to applying some of that to the one that | wrote back in the summer as well. So appreciate that. | have a question
related to naming of the syndication company, | was looking at the name common grace Capital Group, or
something along those lines, common grace capital. The name looks like it's available as far as for a URL. And the
thought in my head was related to you know, I’m coming from the standpoint of being a pastor. And so one of the
things that people experience is God's kindness to them. No matter where they're coming from, and no matter what
they've done in life, the sun comes up and shines on, you know, good people and bad people. And the concept of
housing is something that’s needed by everybody, you know, my primary focus is single family homes at this point.
So, | just wanted to throw that out there Billy kind of gave the inspiration of, you know, letting, letting your ideas float.
And so | was just wondering if you guys had any thoughts or feedback | talked a little bit with Safaricom about it you
know, one of his thoughts was to be careful to not be Waldo. And so that was | thought helpful feedback. And yet at
the same time, the the common in common grace isn't necessarily designed to just blend in but | thought it was good

feedback because it’s kind of a key piece of the puzzle. So | thought

© Russ 29:14

well, | mean | spent a lot of time thinking about names you know every one of my children’s names meant something
right? I've ever named has had a meaning. You know, to me, | think it's great in terms of picking pick something that
means something to you, because it doesn't mean anything to the marketplace. Okay, what does Google mean
meant nothing until they made it mean something now it’s a verb okay? Right. Now Now it's a it’s part of the lexicon
but they made is an Amazon meant nothing now it means something. So you know, it named my my firstborn
daughter, Stephanie and my sister had a girlfriend named Stephanie | hated the name. But for some reason, we
decided to name her Stephanie because | liked what it meant. It was a derivative of Steven is some sure you No. And
so we named it and all sudden now it's one of my favorite names and | love her. Right? She made that name mean
something to me. So you're gonna make the name mean something, you know, the caveat is you don't want to pick a
name that's going to alienate people that you're hoping to attract. Right now I've always get a little nervous when
there’s too much religion around investing even though you know, I've got a pretty long history being a pretty
religious guy. But I've also had my worst business transactions of my life consistently come out of people that overtly
professed their integrity and their, their Christianity.

&) Scott Florida 30:38

That's been my experience as well. Yeah, well,
JO

JO

about. teams, you talked about, you know, excellence and achievement. So | didn't see anything in there. You know, if

there's something in there, then try to pick like one or two words and add that to the front part. Okay. Does that
make sense?

08:16

It does make sense. So when you when you play it back to me, | can see that and | can actually feel that as well. So
absolutely make sense? And we'll work on those two or three words. Yeah. So

Russ 08:29

my little my little code here, as | go through, | highlighted everything in green that | thought was good. And |
highlighted everything in orange that | thought was, you know, kind of iffy. All right. Next one is this experience as
well as laser focus, developing successful outcome? So in other you know, you already had used the word successful
before you said it again, successful and integrity and certain words like that, sometimes if you overplay that hand in
my book, it almost feels like you're too much trying to convince yourself, right, okay. Right. And the other thing is the
next thing, and this is just me knowing you and where you're at, is highly sought after long distance real estate real
assets indicator. | think if you're going to say something when you're trying to build trust, and somebody is going to
question that, what you're saying is they're going to kind of look you up. And | don't know. So I'm not saying this is
bad. But I'm saying if someone Google's aground and looks you up, are you going to come across as somebody who's
highly sought after, as this indicator, this indicator, showing up places speaking to you, maybe I'm not saying you're
not I'm just saying be careful about saying something big about yourself that is easily vetted? Because if it turns out

to be true, or even if it appears to be a little exaggerated, | think actually impugn your credibility. Okay, that makes
sense.

09:56

Yeah, absolutely. Fair point. And, and take that, take that on board.

© Russ 10:00

JO

Okay, um, here's the other big thing and of course, you know, | mean | could | could keep a bunch of praise on you
because | think there's a lot of things you did well, but in the interest of time, | just want to kind of get to the please
more of the traditional stuff. So yeah, | hope | doesn't feel like I'm

10:17

no, no, no, no, this is actually straight to the point and is greatly appreciated.

Russ 10:22

So okay, so | can tell you're an A student, which is great. And maybe it's my bias about a students. | also know that
you're a sales guy, and | can tell that this is written like you're a sales guy. Okay. Okay. And the reason | can tell that

is because you talk a lot about yourself. And that's what salespeople are salespeople are mercenary salespeople are,
JO

Robert 1:02:01

No, thanks for being here. It's Thanks for staying engaged. We'll see hopefully most of you in two weeks.

Russ 1:02:07
Okay. Thanks, everybody.

1:02:08

Thank you very much. Appreciate it.

Scott Florida 1:02:10
Thanks, everybody.
