JO

your team, insulate the capital from the market. If the capital wanted to go dive in the market and get their fingers
dirty and do whatever it is you know how to do, then they wouldn't need you. The reason they need you is because
you and your team is going to insulate them from the market, they want to, they want to have relationship with the
market, they want to profit from the market, but they just don't want to deal with the market directly or they don't
have the ability, that’s why they need you. And that's why they need your team. And you need to make sure they
understand you understand the market. And that the people you have on the bus are capable of tactically executing
whatever your plan is. And so you pick people not just based on their availability or their price, you pick people
based on their their skill set their resume, their connections, their cache, and they may cost you a little bit more if
they're good. But that shouldn't matter. Because you should be able to raise enough money to pay the delta between
cheap and good. And the the extra premium, you get in good in terms of attracting capital, having people believe in
capability, actually being able to execute and tapping into all the social networks that high level performers travel in.
Because birds of a feather flock together, you're better off building into your budget, a bigger budget for attracting
the right team, but you really pay attention to your team and your team is going to be starting with you as the
visionary and the CEO or the master organizer. But you're also going to have your executive team, the people who
are going to execute your vision could be you, you could be CEO, and president or you may be CEO and you have
somebody else who's running the day to day, you're gonna have advisors, people who bring you expertise, you know,
in different aspects, technical advisors, legal advisors, economic advisors, financing advisors, whatever advisors, you
feel like you need, so that you feel like you have a brain trust to tap into along the way, when you get stuck, and you
brag about that, hey, along the way, we're gonna have challenges along the way, I’m not gonna know what to do, in
anticipation of that we are bringing on board this great advisory team, and they have all this great experience, and
they are a phone call away. Alright, so that's part of telling story, the vendors, the people that you choose to work
with, you know, their ability to execute, whether you know, whatever it is, whatever it is, you're building, whatever idea
it is you're developing, do the people that you're hiring to do the work, do they have a track record, do they have
skills? Do they have high ratings, do they have capacity? Are they committed to you, all those things. And then of
course, allies, been talking to Chris martenson, about another idea that that we have call them resilience wrenches.
And you know, these alliances we form are people who, who have something they’re bringing to the party, a
demographic, a marketing, reach a brand, and endorsement, something. So when you think about your team, it's not
just the team that you supervise, but it’s just whole network of people that you're affiliated with or associated with,
they're part of executing this plan and think about how they're connected and perceived by the outside world. And
then ultimately, in your package, once it’s done, you have to have a very clear call to action. This is how you get on
the bus. You fill out this paperwork, you read these disclosures, you sign this document, you wire the money here, or
the hair, or whatever it is. And that's where you have to work with your securities attorney. So this is where the whole
idea of taking an idea and kind of mapping it all down and breaking it down into this lifecycle. all comes down to
telling your story and then producing the documents that actually allow engagement at a practical tactical level.
And that's how you find an idea. So I'm going to conclude all of my opening remarks with that, which was | think,
quite a lot. And | don't see that anybody's popped any questions into the chat. So I'm just going to open the mic up
right now. And see if you guys Out of all that have any questions, and I'll post this outline, it’s not fantastic. But | will
post it along with the video so that you can watch it over again and see the notes once this thing gets into the
platform, so any questions, the best way is probably just to type so | can see it. | suppose there’s enough of you up
but let me put it into a gallery view. Okay, now | can see all your handsome faces. And you tell me any questions
about any of that? thing? Can | pick on you, Ryan? Since it was your You were the one that kind of kicked this thing
off? Did did | give you at least a basis to get moving? You definitely can pick on me. | appreciate | appreciate your
time. And you doing this for me? Um, | guess my biggest question is, once I've done all of this, where do | go to find
the people to raise the capital? That's that’s | mean, | know you guys have the syndication event, which | wasn't able
to make it to this last time I'm hoping to get to the next one is you know, where do | find the people that | can say,
Hey, this is my idea. This is why | think it’s so great. I've answered all these questions as my advisory team, this
demographic, here’s your bus ride. Where do | go find those

46:11
JO

what we did. In fact, Ryan, your uncle Chris was in that deal. He rode the bus from from acquisition of land to selling
the takeout to the, to the to the people that actually we're going to build it. And it was profitable. Okay, who else? |
don't see any other questions in there. Anybody else? We don't have to. We don't have to drag this out if you don't
have questions, but I'm happy to take your questions if you have any. Going once, going twice. Okay, guys, and |
don't think we have any gals. It’s all guys. So Oh, well. No, Brad, you're on your own. So | see Emily's name. Alright,
well, | appreciate all of you being here. The recording will be up on the platform shortly along with my outline. It's not
much | just kind of typed it out ahead of the meeting. But if you have additional questions, you know, you can bring
them to the Ask the mentors, I'm not exactly sure where it would fit in. But just throw it up to membership. And we'll
figure out a way maybe in the future, we can do a q&a on this particular topic. Just get a bunch of people that have
questions to get them throw down some q&a so but go out in the real world and get stuck. Just go out in the real
world and start taking the things you've learned start pushing, start getting into having real world problems, and
then you're going to ask real world questions and all the answers will become a lot more relevant. So use the forum
to coach each other up. And hopefully we'll see a bunch of you in New Orleans next week at the SMC meetup on the
backside if not for the entire conference. Otherwise, hope to see you on the next ask the mentors video. So thanks for
being here.

58:33
Thanks
got some title work done on it. Plus, we've had the market forces that were bullish at the time pulling the market
long, we got to the next phase. And so that was an opportunity for those investors to get off the bus. So we put the
first investor on the bus, the $50,000, six months later, we close quicker than six months. When we purchase it with
the money from the second investor. The first investor got off the bus, he didn’t want to take the rest of the ride. He
took a $70,000 went home. He was a happy camper. The next group, some of the people got off the bus when we
had the deal figured out and we were raising the the the A B the B, A, B, the C round. Whatever it was, was we called
it the ABC formula. So A was the first guy B was the second group when we went to raise the C group. Some of the B
people got off the bus. But some decided to keep their equity which had now grown, and put it on the new bus,
which was great. So we had to value the property at a certain level, and we gave them a proportionate share based
on their appreciated value from B to C. And then we just had to go raise the difference to finish the project. And then
that's what we did. And then for the C round, the next thing, we were then going to pair their equity with debt,
because now we had a developed enough project that we could go to construction lenders and say, Hey, we want to
develop this project. And obviously, debt construction lending is a lot less expensive than equity. Now, in hindsight,
we would have been safer had we raised raised equity, what we didn't know at the time is we were sailing into the
great financial crisis. And just as we were out there ready to go get the debt debt markets imploded. And then the
deal failed, because everything just came to a screeching halt for about two years. But the next phase would have
been then to pair the, the equity from see with the debt. And so this is going to kind of go into this concept of what is
the capital stack, but I'm going to get into that in a minute. But what | want to draw out there is that that's a real life
real estate illustration, but it doesn't matter. Because | took the concept out of high tech, you have your angel
investors that kind of fund the idea, they believe in the team, they like the ideas like hey, go figure it out, right? Come
back to us with an idea. And if it looks good, then we'll go raise some more investment capital develop the idea to
the next level, we'll revalue the company at the at the a round in the B round in the C round however many rounds of
funding it takes to get it fully mature. And somewhere down the road, we're either going to sell in a merger
acquisition to a private buyer, or we're going to do an initial public offering and take the company public or third
option will just hold the profitable business for the production of income. And we may have to try to find a way to sell
private shares. If we can't get this thing in a merger or acquisition or private market, we might have to raise a new
group of investors to take out people that want to get off the bus. The danger anytime you get on a bus like that,
that doesn't have a ready exit strategy is you might get stuck on the bus Mr. investor, we might not be able to get
you out. So the idea is we've got multiple ways for you to get out along the way, we've got multiple ways for you to
get out at the end, we can do it as a group, or if we can work it in, we may be able to take you out as an individual.
Those are all things that you can work into your offering document, and I'll tell you how you know what to put in and
what not to put in in a minute. Okay, so hopefully that's making sense so far. So now you have to figure out in terms
of these basic chunks and trying to put together your your budget or your operating plan, what's needed in terms of
capital, people time, and | don't mean your personal time, but collectively, how much time is it going to take this
team in capital to advance the project, sometimes you're gated by things outside your control by how long it takes to
get permits or certain things approved, whatever it is, takes time to develop intellectual property, whether it's an
architectural design for a building civil engineering drawings, whatever it is, or whether it's software that you got to
do, or whatever it is, it doesn't matter, it takes time. So capital people time tools, you're going to have to maybe
invest in equipment or office or something, right. But you have to figure out what you need not for the whole thing,
not when it looks like when it's completely done and operational. But just what do | need to do to get from phase
one to the next phase? And so phase one is start, what do | need to get started. And in our case, we need just a little
bit of money to be able to get the property under contract, usually | just need enough money so that | can spend the
next six, six months of my life figuring it out, | need somebody to believe in me so much. They'll give me $50,000 to
live on for the next six months while | figure it out. When my father started his company, he funded that round
himself, he sold his house, he lived on his equity. Well, he wrote his business plan, so he could then go raise the
money. So however you choose to do either you invest in yourself or you have another investor, whatever you get to
figure what do | need to do to get started. And then once you're started, you're in this what's what's called the pre
launch phase. So you're going to be in pre launch until you get to the minimum viable product to take a breath.

What is the minimum viable product | have to get to in order to be able to get a new influx of capital. That new influx
of capital could be a new round of investors like we talked about. It could be alone. It could be revenue, or maybe

there’s some other sorts of red but those are like the three basic sources. You can sell something in advance which is
enough to Get tested. So if you've been in tech, if you've been around that environment, you kind of know how that
works. But you can borrow great ideas from the way other people, other industries, put capital stacks together and
apply them to maybe whatever it is you're doing, you can use donations, if what you're doing has a social cost, if
people believe in what you're doing, you can be both a business and yet somebody who accepts donations from
people who just think what you're doing is great, they want to support you. | have local gun clubs that | support, and
| consider them to be donations, right? It’s not a very good return on investments, probably not a very good buy
overpay, but | don't care. I’m happy to have the Gun Club in the community, and | want to support them. So |, | join |
and they're not technically donations, | don't get write offs for them, but in my mind your donations, because
otherwise, it's not a very good investment. But | do it for | do it for feel good. | do it for social reasons. Okay, there's
the float, float is a great way. And it's kind of what | talked about with the real estate guys, we operate a lot of our
business on the float because we collect the money for the seminar, well in advance of delivering the seminar and
during the period of time, | have access to that capital, it's the float and the bigger | can grow that float, the more
capital | have to work with. And so that's another way and and part of that is receivables you know, you can create
float depending on the nature of your business. by accelerating how quickly you collect money, you can sell for cash
and negotiate with all your vendors 30 day terms, which means now you're 30 days float however much you sell, you
actually enhance your cash position and your cash flow with the float. Conversely, if you're not aware of that, you
can end up on the wrong end of it. If you have to pay your vendors cash and you give your customers 30 day terms,
you'll sell yourself right into oblivion. Now for those of you that have a business background or accounting
background, you're like, doesn't everybody know that? Well, I'm here to tell you a lot of small business people don't
know that. And then they look at the p&l that their accrual accounting gives them and they think they're crushing it
because their sales are there, but their cash, they have no cash, like why don't have any cash. Because a p&l,
especially on accrual is not a cash flow statement. And if you don’t know how to manage cash flow, and you don't
know the difference between these two, you can look at a p&l and think that you're profitable, and you can be
profitable on your p&l, and you can be completely zero cash, you have no oxygen in the bank, you have the ability to
pay your bills. So be very attentive to the float. And then the point is, is when you're going out there, and you are
trying to attract all of these different forms of capital, you have to understand it’s an exchange of value. So often we
go out in the marketplace, and we think that we need the capital, we need it to do what we need it to do, it's all
about me my eye we need. And that’s really not the way you need to think about it. But you want to think about is is
what you're going to do for the capital. Every one of those capital sources is a form of an investment. Every one of
those invest doors need to be sold, whether it's a banker, whether it's an employee coming in, you're giving them
options, even even your suppliers that you know are you're saying, hey, | need terms, they're all investing in you. And
you have to ask, what's the exchange value? What are they getting in exchange for what I'm asking for. And so if
you're always looking thinking in terms of making an exchange of value, and you look at, you look at how what
you're doing is viewed through the eyes of the Counterparty and what you you can do to solve their problem. And
then it can help you decide which portion of the capital stack to offer them. What they would be most interested in
based on what their objectives for their capital is. Some people may not be interested in a highly speculative deal,
but they'd be very interested in making you alone and being in front, especially if you have some collateral to put up
as security for that loan. Working on a deal right now, it happens to be another type of gun type deal for an ammo
deal. And what these people did is they ended up getting, they ended up getting a bunch of what they call form
sixes, which is the ability to import a bunch of ammo from Russia. And then the administration came out and
banned ammo imports, which meant that any existing open form sixes were valuable, and they had the ability to
import a billion rounds of ammo. Okay, well, there's a big opportunity there. And they need to raise capital in order
to fund those purchases, and there's a lot of meat on the bone. So they had a great idea. They acted upon the idea
with the resources they had they came to me and said, Hey, can you help us we're stuck. And | said, Yeah, let's dig in
and figure that out. And so there's a lot of different ways to to meet the capital requirement. It could be, we could we
could offer debt, we could pre sell and collect POS and collect money up front. There's a lot of different ways to do it.
But you just have to understand who's the ideal investor for each component of the stack and which phase are they
going to fit into. So again, I'm going to kind of close this section just by saying syndicating is about matching capital
with opportunities. Where the deals likely performance feeds the capitals desired objective. In other words, you got
to make sure that the target you're aiming at with the capital is the target the capital wants to hit. Could be privacy,

could be capital preservation, could be income, could be tax breaks, could be capital growth to be long term capital
really we've got to get this baby breathing on its own. If we don't do this baby’s gonna die. You have to have the
sense of urgency as an entrepreneur, you've got to know how am | going to get to my first breath of oxygen, because
you can't provide a return on investment to an investor until you know how you're going to take a breath. Now, it is
true in some businesses, you can have an exit strategy, just simply selling the sizzle and the idea. But | would not bet
the farm that there's going to be that kind of speculative capital out there that your idea is going to be so sexy,
you're going to be able to take it public or get acquired by somebody that is going to be willing to pay for your great
idea. | would | would bet the farm on people wanting to see revenue if you've ever watched Shark Tank, and I’m not a
big watcher, but I've watched enough of it one of the first thing he wants to know Okay, the idea is great. Have you
sold anything? Have you generated any revenue? How much revenue? What's your profit margin, right? They want to
know is this baby breathing yet? Or am | trying to resuscitate the dead so just understand that you're going to want
to have that. So you got to break it down into scope and sequence of development, understand what each phase are
each round. You got to have a plan and then you're going to make enough money to Get to the next round. So each
breath leads to another breath in the beginning you're breathing the investors capital, but eventually you need to be
breathing the markets capital. So | told you, I'd tell you real estate story. And I'm going to tell you this story. So back
in the day, we had discovered the marketplace of San Antonio. And we really liked the market of San Antonio was
the first step, first major city stop, they had signed the NAFTA agreement. And so all that production that came in all
the importing that came in on the NAFTA highway from Mexico, the first major city it stopped in was San Antonio,
which was an opportunity here there for there to be some additional work, maybe there's raw materials, or maybe
there's partially finished work, and they're going to do some additional work on it in San Antonio. And that's going to
move up for distribution out of Dallas. So we liked it. It's a big medical community, it was one affordable
communities, kind of a blue collar town, great for rental property. And so there was we found a land developer out
there had a bunch of land. And he was divesting himself with some pieces of land. And so we saw an opportunity to
make a land grab. And the question is, you know, we're going to syndicate it, what are you going to do with the land?
| don't know. We don't know what we're gonna do with it. Right? It's a great market, and we have an opportunity to
buy some land, | think we should buy the land. So we had to figure out how are we going to tell the story? How are
we going to raise this money. And so the first thing we did is we said we got into contract on the land. And then we
went to a investor that we had a relationship with, we said, Hey, we need earnest money on this contract. So we need
to put $50,000 of earnest money in on this contract, it's going to take us about six months to do our due diligence,
and raise the capital to close. And at the end, we'll give you $20,000 on your 50. So if you do the math, you know,
$20,000 on $50,000, in six months is 40% annualized ROI. Now it's fairly high risk, because if we default on the
contract, now we had clauses where we could back out on due diligence, so he get his money back. So he'd lose
opportunity. It wasn't a hard deposit. So he wasn't at risk of losing his capital. And he stood to make a lot of money.
And we were very generous with him. Because if we didn't get the deal, there was no future for us. And even though
the ROI for the investor was extremely high, it was a drop in the bucket because it was a $2 million raise, it really
didn't matter that much doesn't pay the extra 20,000 is plenty of profit in the deal. And so then we went to the next
round of capital, and we said, hey, we've got an idea, we're going to buy this property, we don't quite know what
we're going to do with it. But the plan is we're going to buy the property. And during the period of time that we have
the property, we need to have enough money to close on the property and maintain the property, pay the taxes, pay
the security, pay the lawn maintenance, and invest in the IP development, because we need to do a study, we need
to do an environmental study, what can we build there, we need to, we need to create a plan, we might build a retail
center, we might build multifamily, we might build residential owner occupied, we might build a medical office
building, we don't know what we're going to build. But here's the market. And it’s a growing market. There's lots of
people, there's lots of different opportunities. And so during this period of time, this next cycle in the business, we are
going to do all of that due diligence, and we're going to figure it out, the risk that you take is that we can't come up
with anything good. And we may have to sell the property. And if we bet right on the market, we hope we'll have
enough appreciation, or that the work that we've done in terms of entitlement, and some of the work that we've

done will add enough value, we'll be able to get you out hold no guarantee. However, if we're successful, then what
we'll do is we're going to write a contract to buy the property from the group of syndicators that took down the first
phase into the into the second phase. And the second phase is now we know what our project is we have a deal to
fund we know exactly what we're going to go build. And based on that it’s worth more. So we're going to charge

those investors a premium for this land that now has this intellectual property called the plan attached to it. And it’s
focusing on real assets, or or real estate now said, You've said what you do. So just kind of have an idea of what is my
big idea in the context of what problem does it solve? And then part of what you're going to need to do is tell your
prospective investor, not only what the problem is, but who has the problem, who is the target customer who is there
a big enough market out there, to really have an opportunity. So if you're inventing a new product, if you're building a
new building in a marketplace, where there isn't one, especially if you're going to introduce some new type of a
product type that isn't proven, you really have to identify who has this problem. How many people are out there like
that? And how is that problem affecting them, because they’re your target market, they might have the problem and
not know they have the problem, Steve Jobs is famous for have creating technology, nobody knew they want it. And
so he didn't worry about what they wanted, he worried about what he knew they needed that they didn't even know
they needed. And so that's a whole different level of play. So you know, for most of us, as real estate investors, we're
not going to be faced too much with that we kind of can identify, but every once in a while you come up with
something nuanced, you're gonna do something a little bit different. You know, Randy and Jana are doing special
needs housing. Okay, well, that means something to them, it may not mean anything to a prospective investor. So
they get to break that down and say, Hey, we have an idea. And the idea is that we see a whole bunch of people out
there in the special needs market, and they are struggling to find affordable housing, and there's a lot of them. And
we have a way we could do that. And so if we could show you a way to invest where you got a good return on
investment to help solve that problem, is that something you'd be interested in learning more about? Right? So that's
just kind of the trial close. So who has a problem? How is the problem affecting the target market? Do they know
they have the problem? And if they do know they have the problem? How are they solving it now or attempting to
solve it now because sometimes, you know, people have a problem and they, they’re frustrated because there is no
answer. Well, that's a great opportunity. But then again, it’s a challenge, because there may be a reason why there's
no answer, somebody hasn't been able to figure it out. Or maybe they're already solving it in some way, shape or
form. But you have found a way to solve it better, solve it faster, solve it cheaper. So, you know, just just try to
understand, how are they solving it now? And then ultimately, when you think about the target demographic, from
whom you need to derive revenue, either Are they ready, willing, and able to pay for your solution? Is that viable?
Sometimes, you know, a lot of especially tech companies, they offer something for free in order to build an audience
that they monetize in some other way. And the people aren't really the customer. They're the product, you've heard
that all the time in tech, right? If you're not paying for the service, you're not the you're not the customer, you're the
product. And so you just need to think through those things. So that's really the first order of business when you're
trying to find an idea is to get really clear on the idea, what problem does it solve? Who has the problem? How is
that problem affecting the target market? Do they know they have the problem? How are they solving it now? And if
they are, or whether they are they? Are they ready, willing and able to pay for your solution? If not, how are you going
to monetize your idea? Okay, so that's just kind of the foundation, again, wish | had a graphic for you. But you'll be
able to go back into platform and watch this and scribble out your notes. And | think we're getting these things
transcribed. | think my outline here is good enough, | may include it as an attachment, so that you'll have it. So the
next thing, then you need to really think about is how much meat is on the bone? In other words, how much profit is
in this deal? And how do you know, because the investors are going to want to know what's the potential here, if it’s a
small deal, it can have a high margin, but high margin on a small base is still low amount of gross profit, right, and a
low amount of net profit, it’s just not that much meat on the bone, it’s a tiny bone. But if you have a big, big idea, and
you say, hey, the margins aren't great, but there's there's big dollars to be made, well, then you may struggle with
attracting ROI, unless there’s some other compelling reason. But at least you have a shot at some scalability, maybe,
you know, at some point, getting to a point where you get economies of scale, and you can drive costs down. So
there's a relationship between what you think the market would be willing to pay, how big the market is, how much
you think it would cost you to produce or provide the product or service. And that gives you an idea, when you
achieve whatever you think your target market penetration is going to be, | can have 1% of the market, | can have
5% of the market, | can have 10% of the market. You know, you may do the math and go You know what, to make
this thing work, | have to have 100% of your market. | give you an example. The producer who originally helped us
set up the real estate guy says a podcast and set up our our website came to us and said Hey guys, you know, | gave
him the challenge. We need recurring revenue. And he goes, let’s do premium content subscription model that great
how much $27 a month, that seems reasonable. Okay, so we we invested the money to build the platform, get it all

set up, they built the whole thing. And then it just wasn't seeming to catch, right. We just weren't having the numbers.
people?

Russ 46:12

Yeah, that's a great question. And for the people who have been in the program a while they know the answer. From
the very beginning and secrets of successful syndication. | tell people from day one, the single most important thing
you do the first thing you should start doing the thing you should never stop doing is build your brand, build your
network, build your brand, build your network, build your brand, build your network, build your brand, build your
network, every possible way, build your brand, build your network. And then when you do that, at some point, you're
going to come to your network with a great idea. And based on the size of your network and the power of your
brand, your deal will fund. And so how do you how do you network? Well, some people do it on social media. Some
you know they're out there and they're connecting with people. Raising money is the act of getting into a personal
relationship. And so this isn't mass marketing. This isn't Click Funnels this, this is not the way this works. You build
strategic relationships, preferably with influencers, if you watch me work, that's what | do. | find a few handful of
people. And if you've been through my sales training, and it's in the platform, | go out in the marketplace, and | look
for people that have influence over a demographic that's most likely to be interested in what I'm doing. So in your
case, Ryan, | know that your your particular product, it's software, it's an app. And so there are people out there who
belong to investor groups like angel investing groups, my father, your grandfather, spent a lot of time going to these
meetup groups in Silicon Valley because he found people who came that they were looking for the next hot Bonita
ride they were they were people looking for those types of deals. I'm working with a gal right now that used to be the
CEO of angel investor network, which is a company that was kind of CO founded with Kevin Harrington, one of the
original sharks, and a guy named Greg writer. And that's what they're about. They're about matching capital with
with entrepreneurs. A lot of guys in our program are out there networking, real estate events, a bunch of us are all
going to the New Orleans investment conference next week. And we're going to be standing like a bunch of we're
going to be standing in a booth, getting into conversations with investors, who are looking for things to invest in. And
the closer you get in those in the environments that you go into, that are most likely to be stocked with the kind of
fish you're trying to catch. The more likely when your brother was interested in the cannabis business, | took him to
two or three different cannabis conferences. | don't know jack about cannabis. Right. But | knew that if | went to a
conference full of people who are dedicated to cannabis, | was going to meet everybody | needed to know, | was
going to see people who were vendors supplying people, products and services, | was going to see speakers and
influencers and coaches and mentors legal tax. You know, growing, everything was all going to be in the front of the
room, | could go from room to room and see where the popular speakers were, | could talk to the people, what did
you like best. So you really have to study your market. And then you have to engage your market. This is a business
of engagement. Now with that said, you know, there are crowdfunding platforms where you can throw an idea out
there, the danger is when you're marketing only an idea, unless you have locked it up to the point where nobody
could steal your idea. Every time you go in the marketplace and open your mouth, you run the risk of giving your
idea away to somebody who's better funded, and better suited to move quickly and out hustle you. And that's one of
the difficult parts of being in tech. But if you have a trusted network of people, like | do, | have | have some ideas I'm
working on right now with people, but | only talk with people that | really know and | really trust that | feel her you
know, well heeled. And again, you don't need to have a million person list. You only need to build relationships with
maybe a dozen or half a dozen of the right people who are connected and those relationships will take you
everywhere else you need to go but it's very difficult not to be engaged with the marketplace until you need capital
and just show up, Hey, everybody, here | am, you don't know me from Adam. But | got a great idea. And | need
money, much better to have built a relationship over time so that when you show up with a great idea, you've
already built a basis of human trust. And then you just have to, through your presentation, build trust in terms of
competency, which is both you and the team. And then you've got to have an exchange of value that makes enough
sense. And somebody says, Yes, I’m, I'm willing to put some capital into this, because | can see the value. | trust you in
terms of your ethics, and | trust your competency between you and your team to execute. Okay, let’s see, can you
have a question? Somebody else had a quote Ben, Ben Dickey, you go first?
O°
O)

JO

JO

50:50

Hey, it's a little loud. The family got home. So I'll try to be quick. But | was just wondering if you could expand on the
multiple capital phases, and any things that have worked really well on your projects or lessons learned there? And
and maybe just specifically, like one ppm, or multiple ppm and things like that? Yeah, so

Russ 51:13

the ppm thing is more of a legal side. You know, we didn't have to worry about the expenses kind of the way you did,
because we had full time counsel. And so he he just Mauricio just crank out whatever we needed. And | didn't pay
any attention to what it costs. Because he was on retainer. He just did whatever we asked him to do, which was
awesome. So | had | had that fixed because we were doing enough deals. And it may be that if you have people who
are already in a deal, you may not need to do quite so much. | don't know. So I'm not going to get into that you can
ask that on the Ask the mentors with ratio. It's a great question. Just like your great question for Kevin day yesterday,
was great. Save that for the next one. It worked out fine. Because Kevin ended up there was a miscommunication.
And he didn't show up and | winged it, the whole thing. | think it was okay. But you know, we'll get Kevin on next time.
But | think that the other part of it is, you know, kind of the the lessons learned part. | mean, the secret is really just
take people on a ride they want to go on, just just understand the ride they want to go on, or at least a good
description of the ride that you're going to take them on and ask them, does that sound like something you'd be
interested in? Or how interested would you be? Because that leaves them? You know, an affirmative answer. Mostly,
you might assume no, I'm not interested at all, or Well, you know, I'm maybe a little bit interested. Oh, really? What
What, what do you find interesting, blah, blah, blah, What's missing? Because, again, sales technique is always trying
to identify the gap, what do you like What's missing? And, and just take them on. It's, it’s just take them on the right.
And then just make sure that whatever you say you can do, don't blow smoke up there. But | mean, don't Don't, don't
lie. Don't misrepresent. Don't, don't use hyperbole. Don't exaggerate. Just tell the frickin truth. Tell the truth. And do
the best you can to adhere to the truth and you'll be fine. If the deal doesn't float with you telling the truth or lying
about it doesn’t make it a deal. Just Just you got to go fix the deal. Or you're barking up the wrong tree. Right? Don't
don't don't change the deal on the fly to match the capital. Just get really clear on what the capital wants and say,
Hey, you know what, I'm not convinced I've got a place for you. But let me ask you this. If | go back, and I'm able to
rework part of this deal, or find another deal, that would bring you what you just told me, You totally want. Is there
any reason you wouldn't be willing to take a look at it? And if the person says, Well, no, okay, well, no means yes, in
that context. And so you're gonna say, Okay, great, then I'm gonna go do that, then you earned the right to go
sharpen your pencil, you don't have to think on the fly, figure it out, and then come back and show them something
that works. And hopefully, that’s not the only person you're talking to. So if it's not a match, you're not desperate. This
goes back to having a big brand and a big network. If you've got a lot of prospects and abundance mentality, you

don't have to worry about, you know, trying to try to fit a square peg into a round hole. Then answer the question.

54:08
Yeah, absolutely. Thank you.

Russ 54:11
All right. Ken, you got a question?

54:13
Audio October 2021 - Special Ask the Mentors Q&A
Call on Fun...

@ Fri, 10/15 9:04AM @ 58:35

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, capital, investors, deal, syndicating, business, idea, build, market, questions, pay, revenue, fund, develop, money, big, sell,

bus, real estate, interested

SPEAKERS

Russ

Russ 00:01

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ. And we're doing a special edition today of ask the mentors. And this really
came up because my son Ryan, who is working on an idea said, Hey, Dad, can you help me figure out how to fund
my idea? And then he, you know, wanted to get into the weeds of what his idea was. And | said, Whoa, stop, because
| probably won't even understand it anyway, it's a tech thing. But the issue is that the the principles of fundraising
raising apply, no matter what you're doing. So | said, Well, if I'm gonna do this, how about we do this? How about we
do this on a call, and | kind of go through this for for everybody. And we'll see what kind of interests we get. And
based on how many people are in the room right now | say, Hey, we struck a nerve, we get some interested, folks. So
thank you all for being here. What, what we can do this is a you know, obviously a mentoring club function. So
everything's covered. And Ryan is a member of the mentoring club, by the way, my son, so you know, everything's
covered by the NDA, | don't know that we're going to talk about anything, all that proprietary, this is mostly going to
be marked me monologuing. But if you do have questions, throw them up in the chat. And | will take them on either
when they come up, or I'll take them on at some break point where | think it makes sense. But other than that, I'm
just going to kind of riff for a little bit and cover this topic. | don't have any graphics. So you guys just have to sit here.
And sadly, just look at my face. As | as |, as | do this, | may wave my hands and do some pictures and stuff. But this is
really for somebody that's got you know, you've got a great idea you like, Hey, | got a great idea. | need to find a way
to fund it. But what | don't have is a plan. | don't have a budget, | don’t even know how much money | need. | don't
know return on investment. I'm just kind of like, I'm just trying to move forward. | feel good about the project. | feel
good about the team, | feel good about the market. How do | get from point A to point B? And so that's really | want
to talk about so the first thing you have to do kind of in your list of questions. If you want great answers, you have to
ask great questions. First question you have to ask yourself is what's the big idea? What is the big idea? And you
have to be able to define it in a way hopefully, that people understand it in the context of the problem it solves. So in
other words, like Robert Helms teaches all the time, when your elevator pitch, when someone asks you, what do you
do you don't tell them what you do. You tell them how you help people. In other words, you know, you can say, Well,
I'm a doctor, okay? You're a doctor. Or you could say, | help people achieve better health. And then somebody who's
interested in better health is going to go, Oh, I’m interested in better health, tell me more. If you say I'm a doctor, they
maybe have a pre existing label what that means, obviously, if you're in the real estate business, you know that
maybe you say, I’m in real estate, everybody just assumed your real estate agent, you sell houses. So if you're a
syndicator, and you tell somebody, I'm in real estate, | don’t have any idea who you are what you do. But if you say |
help investors, achieve high returns of investment, high risk adjusted returns of investment outside of Wall Street,
revenue. But then you have you're on the hook to deliver comes with the offsetting liability of having to deliver the
product somewhere down the road like a deposit. deposits are ways that you can fund things. | mean looking at
Robert and | run our our seminar business, people pay for the seminar months ahead of time, months ahead of time,
we raised 10s of 1000s, sometimes hundreds of 1000s of dollars for an event and we don't have to deliver it for six
months. During that time we have use of the capital. But of course, we have the obligation, the liability of delivering
the event, because if we fail to deliver the event, now we're in trouble. But from a cash flow perspective, the event
business is very good, because we get cash in early and we, we don't have to deliver product till later. Okay, so you
just have to understand from where to get from starting to kind of pre launch to launch. And what is the MVP, you
need to be able to take that next breath. So that’s phase one, once once you get to the point, and there may be
several phases in phase one, because it could be, I'm going to go from an getting started to second round of capital,
to getting some debt to having a product to generating real revenue. So when | say pre launch to launch launch is
actually generating revenue. I'm generating customers, they’re paying, I'm generating advertisers, they're paying, |
have tenants, they're paying whatever the business model is, for whatever it is you're developing, when are you
breathing? When are you bringing in revenue. Once you're bringing in revenue, there's a period of time when you're
bringing in revenue, which stops how fast you're bleeding out. But the reality is, you're not bringing enough in enough
revenue to pay the bills, your negative cash flow. And so you've got to figure out what your bleed is. And you have to
figure out how much money you have to have in reserves to feed that bleed until you can get to critical mass, which
is the next level up. You got to ramp up from launch to get to critical mass critical mass is when you are self
sufficient, you're breathing on your own, you no longer need a respirator, you no longer need in influxes of investor
capital to keep you afloat. You're actually bootstrapping now. Now you may decide to to supercharge, you may say,
hey, we've got a great idea. We've got customers, we've proven the point to go to the next level. If we had two more
million dollars, we could expand our facility, we could build our team, we could launch this new product line and, and
generate more revenue from the customers that are already on our base, they've told us this is what they're
interested in whatever it is. And so that that subdivision of what you're doing could actually be like almost a startup
within a startup. So you can be generating revenue, but you don't have to get to breakeven, or that you don't have to
rely only on your revenue over expenses, your net profit to continue to grow, you can have additional infusions along
the way. But critical mass is getting to the point where where your income from operations is paying all of your
operating expenses, and generating some type of a profit, even if it’s fairly modest. And then ultimately, you've got to
get from the point where you've reached critical mass to where you've gotten to the point where you're hitting your
target return, you've gotten your full market penetration, you've hit your full margin, you've developed all your
economies of scale, you're basically mature business, whatever it is. And then the question is, what do you do?
What's the exit, and you may exit along the way sooner you may have somebody come in and give you an offer for
your great idea. Excuse me, before you thought you were ready, and you can decide to take it or not take it if you're
dealing with investor capital. You know, this is more of a ratio question. But you got to be prepared to answer if you
had a chance to get your investors a profit and get them liquid and you decide not to do it, you got to be prepared
to answer for that later. If your judgment to hold turns out to be a bad decision. Sometimes you just need to cash in
your chips, right? Those are business decisions that you have to make along the way. But again, the concept there is
you have to understand the lifecycle of the development of whatever you're doing. And it basically starts with a start
a hold and an exit. And the whole time should have multiple bus stops for people to get on and off. Exit should have
multiple exit strategies on how you're going to get your investors out and show them you know, an ROI cash to asset
to cash. Okay, so now let's talk about the funding component of it, which is your your capital stack, what we call your
capital stack. Most of us just think in terms of equity, we go raise equity, but you can also raise debt, you can issue
debt. You don't have to borrow directly from a lender, you can borrow from your investors. So you can offer make a
debt offering instead of an equity offering, you can often offer something called convertible debt, which is debt that
can be convertible into equity later. Under certain conditions. Under certain terms based on somebody's options, you
can sell options. There are many companies in Silicon Valley that fund their growth by telling, you know, their
employers the story, that they're going to eventually go public and when they go public, they will be vested in their
options, and that gives them the options to purchase the stock at a fraction of what they hope will be the market
price and so they can arrange an immediate profit. So what they've done is they funded their business with options
because they offer the workers the options in lieu of the full salary that they would get with the idea that we're going

to pay enough to eat but your payoff is really going to come from helping us build a big company and staying long
Actually, | was answering Ryan's question about where to look for money. | was adding on to some of your
suggestions and saying, if you have a team tap into their network, as well, my construction guy is I'm syndicating for

development. That's my goal. So I'm kind of the black sheep. Most people are doing it for acquisitions. But my
construction guy has built a lot of large projects for a lot of why

© Russ 54:33

JO

not that much of a black sheet because almost all of our syndications were for development. That's what Robert

wanted to do. | mean, we bought we bought a lot of property too, but most of the money we raised when it did
development.

54:43

Yeah, no. And actually | learned that when | came to Dallas, just from talking to Robert he told me that so yeah, but

But anyway, just my construction guy knows a lot of the wealthy guys in my city, and they're looking to invest and so
it's a great way to tap in but | just one comment. I'll make very quickly and then I'll turn it back over. I'm coming back
into real estate development. I've been in tech for the last 12 years. | found this company when they were three

people joined when they were 40 in 2009, when the shit hit the fan, and | was developing downtown condos in Boise,
Idaho and wasn't doing

© Russ 55:19

JO

and he got crushed on condo conversions, because all condo finance he disappeared.

55:24

Yeah, | was there. And so literally | went into tech | his, you know, musical chairs, | took the last chair available, and
thought it was gonna be there for a year or two. But this company | joined, ended up | was there for 12 years ended
up growing from, you know, 40 people to 1000 people, we just accident, you know, $1.1 billion exit. | mean, it was just
stunning. But it never occurred to me until that you're just sequence that you were talking through that you can apply

that same venture capital model series A Series B Series C, to real estate development syndicates, | just wanted to
thank you that made my day just listening to this

Russ 55:59

good. Yeah, | mean, that's what we did. You know, Robert and | met in Silicon Valley, my dad was a high tech
entrepreneur, | was interested in high tech, because | felt the pressure to innovate was more pressure than | wanted
to have on me. But | watched the way the capital worked. And | said, You know, | wanted to be in the capital
business. And so | started a mortgage company. And when we were trying to figure out how to fund an idea, | said,
well, let's just borrow from the high tech business and apply it to the real estate business. And, and | took exactly
what I'm teaching you. This is where it was born in that deal in San Antonio. And | said, this is how we do it. Because
high tech funds ideas all the time, they don't know what they're going to do them any idea what they're going to do.
And they have a tiny idea. So we don't need to know what we're going to do with the property, we have an
opportunity to buy the property. Now. It's a great market, we think it's a great time, let's buy the property and figure
out what we're going to do after the fact and just explain it to the capital in a way that it makes sense. And that's
growth, it could be explosive capital growth, they're looking for big capital, right? It could be high yield income,
dividends, profit sharing and revenue sharing whatever it is, the problem you get into is when you mismatch, because
you find somebody that’s got a bunch of capital they want to put to work and you hear what you want to hear. And
you put them into a part of your capital stack that doesn’t match their capital desires. And even though you've got
the money and you got what you needed, the end of the day, capital is not going to be happy. And when you have to
deal with uncap, unhappy capital, that's one of the worst things in the syndication business is having to deal with
unhappy capital, you're like, wait a minute, you You didn't lose any money, you got a good deal. Yeah, but |, you
know, | need, | need to take the money out because | got this other deal. You didn't tell me I'm stuck on this bus for
three years. Right? So it’s not just ROI. It’s not just risk, it’s also term, and what percentage of their portfolio so just
just consider all those things when you're thinking about it, all right. The key is get out of your own head and get out
of your own needs. And remember, capital doesn't exist to help you find your idea and achieve your dreams. It really
exists to serve the capital. So you're going to, you're going to be, you're going to be a servant to that capital. Pick
your master carefully. Make sure that you pick investors that believe in you that believe in what you're doing, why
you're doing it, and understand exactly how they fit into your capital stack. And you understand exactly how they fit
into their capital stack. And you're very clear about what it is. So they everybody goes in with their eyes wide open,
smart investors, smart investors will ask all the right questions, even if you're not prepared to answer them. Hopefully,
this will help you be in a position to be prepared to make better presentations and answer those questions ahead of
time. naive investors will get all caught up in your excitement and your enthusiasm and your big idea, and the
promise of making big money. And they will have inside their mind's eye some fantasy of what's going to happen,
which is not rooted in any reality. And because there's not enough clarification going on, they get on the bus with
expectation a and you deliver and you put them on the bus with expectation B, and maybe you deliver results, see,
which is really far away from expectation a and now you have an unhappy investor. So just getting somebody to say
yes, and send you money is not the end game, matching the capital to exactly what it is you think you're going to do,
and making sure that they go in sophisticated with their eyes wide open, that's really the better way to do it. Okay,
now, let's talk about just kind of packaging it up and telling your story. And then I'll open this up to q&a, cuz I've been
monologuing here for quite a while. So the first thing to do when you're going to explain to somebody about your big
ideas, you got to talk about the market, like we talked about in the beginning in the market consists of three different
components. It's the the geographic market, if it's a geographic product, or the economic conditions of the market
place, or both. It's going to be the product niche or industry specific. And it's going to be the demographic that the
product service idea services. And you have to understand all three of those if you're going to set the proper context
for your deal. For people to understand why this deal makes sense. Why does it make sense today, when the dollar is
where it's at? and interest rates are, where it's at? And the stock markets where it's at? Why does it make sense in
San Antonio, Texas, or Denver, Colorado or wherever, if it's a geographic project? Why does it make sense in the
apartment space, or the mobile home space? Or the app space? Or the personal services space? Or whatever your
idea is? Why does it make sense in that product niche or sector of market? Why does it make sense? And then the
last one thing is what is the demographic? And why does it make sense you know, you've heard | hate to say this, but
I'm just gonna bring it up | cuz | the words were just going to come out on the now late, great Jean greeno, in the
residential assisted living soace came out and he he told the world about the silver tsunami coming. And he made
the case that this demographic was going to have a huge need for assisted living housing. And there was a big
opportunity that and he's been a pioneer in developing that opportunity all across this country national association,
have has launched hundreds of small entrepreneurs who have gone out and started these facilities successfully.
That's that's, that's the idea of taking an idea and then developing it into something by understanding your market,
your niche, why it makes sense, okay? So you have to develop your market and your need. From there. You have to
develop your plan. How am | going to get from where | am right? Now concept to where we're actually generating
revenue. And that's the idea of this bus. | got to figure out where | am right now what do | need to get to the first
milestone, the second milestone, the third milestone, how can | craft into this deal ways for people to get on and off
the bus along the way, because | don't have enough visibility, to craft a detailed plan budget pro forma, from soup to
nuts, | just can't, there's just not enough visibility, | can only have visibility to the first bus stop. And you got to
convince people that you've got the chops, to be able to get them just to the first bus stop. And then from there, you
have to have enough visibility to get to the next bus stop. So you're constantly selling each round as you're working

through the life cycle. And so that's part of telling your story, a big, big part of your story is going to be your team,
And so finally, | did what | should have done in the beginning. And you know, first of all, | fired the guy. And then then
what | did is | went in, and | looked at how many people were we how many podcast downloads we had and at that
time, we had 5000, unique listens 5000. And | said, Okay, if we got 5000 people, and if we got 100% of them, it’s still
not enough money at $27 a month to make sense. So this business model won't work, it's a bad idea. There just
wasn't enough meat on the bone. And so | changed the entire business model. And | said, Okay, that's no longer a
business model, we're going to give our content away for free. And we're going to monetize our audience a different
way. And that is by creating a network of providers that provide the products and services that people want to use to
act out on their education, education for effective action. And then we'll make those people sponsors. And we'll
generate ad revenue. And we'll do it that way. And then out of that, we will develop targeted educational
components and develop a seminar company where we'll bring people back into the real world and not try to go to
some subscription model. And so that's the all of that was us trying to figure out how to fund our idea, which was a
new business coming out of the wake of 2008. When you know our bricks and mortar, our mortgage company, our
brokerage business, even our development company, and everything was in shambles. And we took the real estate
guys and turned it into the main business. And of course now it's a big multimillion dollar business. But that all
happened with an idea. And of course, we didn't have to sell the investors on the idea. We were the investors but we
still had to have the idea we still had to have a revenue plan. And we had to have an assessment of how much meat
was really on the bone. So that's why you got to spend time to really think about the size of your market. How much
penetration is realistic terms of what else is out there. And then what kind of margin it’s going to take in terms of
what people are willing to pay what it’s going to cost you to deliver this service. And then as you grow, how you can
implement economies of scale that are going to create sprag missing Well, what does this have to do with real
estate, I'm going to tell you real estate story a little bit, because it actually can affect real estate. But this is again, just
funding an idea. As you know, from being in the club, we've seen people come in, and because we don't teach
syndicating real estate directly, we really just focus on syndicating and you can syndicate anything you want. We
have people coming in. And syndicating things are a little bit on the fringe of real estate like carbon scrubbing
devices, or ATM machines, or things like that. And these are things we would have never thought of syndicating we
certainly would have never been qualified to trainee but in how to do it. But our syndicators are super smart, you
guys figure stuff out. So the idea of raising money is raising money, and you may decide at some point to start a
business to fund a business. And so | think these are good skills to have. In any case. So coming back to kind of
understanding that now you've kind of got an idea what your big idea is, who your target market is how much meat
you think is on that bone and why you think it and then how you can develop it. So then you got to kind of get down
into what | call the life cycle of the deal. And it's the lifecycle of for the Capitol, you're going to take the Capitol on a
ride. And you have to be able to tell the Capitol, when the Capitol is going to be able to get on the bus, how long
they need to stay on the bus, how they're going to get off of the bus. And if they have options for when they get off,
do they have to ride it all the way to the end? Or are there bus stops along the way that they can get off, and are
there bus stops along the way that new investors can get on. And so if you think of that kind of analogy, when you're
thinking about building your business, you realize | don't have to fund the whole thing at the beginning, | just need to
fund the next logical phase. But you can't do that until in your mind's eye, you have that that life cycle figured out
that story to tell. So think about it as a as a as a bus ride and you're going to get on the bus, you're going to ride the
bus, you're going to have stops where you can get on or add new people or get off. And then ultimately, you know,
it's going to terminate, at some point, whatever point that is, okay, so you should have multiple exit strategies. And it
can be any kind of business, any kind of project, the principles kind of are always the same. So now that you've got
this idea, you got to break it down into scope and sequence of how you're going to develop the idea. And each

phase is going to need funding. And so for each phase, you're going to have to have some credible basis of estimates
and assumptions about expenses and projections of revenue. Maybe you're at a point in the development where
there is no revenue, and you're just consuming capital. And then you have to know what where what, how much do |
have enough capital to get to my first breath, what | call that first breath, if you're giving birth to an idea, whatever it
is, you're building a new project from the ground up, you're starting a piece of software, starting a company from
ground zero, whatever it is, at some point, you know, you're going to take that, that baby to market, and you're going
to need to slap it and get it to take a breath, which is oxygen. If that baby doesn't breathe, it's going to turn blue and
die. And you if you've ever been in the delivery room, and I've been in a lot of delivery rooms, you know, when that

baby comes out boy mission job one is to get to that first breath, everything is predicated the success of this birth is
