Jo

Jo

Yeah, the real world questions are great, because you know, we don't have to prepare, which is fantastic. But more
importantly than that, is we're actually answering things that are happening in the real world, this is going to be so
much more relevant, so much more practical for the people that come after you. So thank you. | echo risio
sentiments, thank you all for participating. | know that you know a lot of you, you don't even know what you don't
know, and you're just here to listen. But when you do decide to sign up for these things, try to take some time and
think about, you know, the questions that you do have, don't be afraid of asking a stupid question. There's no such
thing as a stupid question. Much, right? If it’s stupid, I'll tell you nicely. But it's not going to be stupid, right? It's this is
this is not a complicated business. It's just you got to really, really master the fundamentals and understanding the
law of of the aspects of the law in terms of the marketing and the offering and what you can say and not say, and
then the structuring of the deals, and the responsibilities and liabilities there between handling money and
mitigating, you know, the various risks and exposures both to the investors, the market and the regulators. But again,
you parse all that out, you get in the habit of parsing them out, like dealing with them with different fronts, and then
you just deal with them individually and dig deep and pretty soon you can put them all together and then you have
a kind of a comprehensive legal understanding and legal strategy for how to operate your business. Okay. Alright, so
we're gonna call that a wrap. We'll see you the next time. Thanks, everybody. Appreciate it. Thanks, risio. Thanks,

guys.

58:29
Right.

58:31
Thank you.
privacy concerns or not. But you kind of start with all the people. So | usually start with all the people who were in
the mix, and | try to find out what are they looking for? What am | trying to do for them if the personal use
component is part of that. And then you have to contemplate somebody says Well, | want to be able to use it. But
then if you don't use it, | want to be able to rent it and keep the income | don't want the income to go into the pool,
you know, so you just have to think through it's a lot of what ifs right and you can't necessarily anticipate everything.
But if you approach it, | don't like starting in the middle and working out | like starting from all the players and then
figuring out what everybody wants and trying to put as much of what everybody wants into the mix. And then if |
can create whatever the structure is in such a way that | have a lot of things to offer all the people then | have a
better way to get everybody to the table and get the Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay, good question. Other

Mauricio 30:03

quick. Another quick point there too is is, you know, this is where you think your attorney can help. | mean, that's
really what one of the things that your attorney should be helping you with in terms of let your attorney know what
your outcome is, what is your goal? What are you trying to ultimately do and accomplished, and then let’s get some
feedback from the lawyer. They can they can sell well, we can do it this way, we can do it that way to accomplish
what you want. It’s not your job, as Russell was talking about, you're not the technician, as well. So from a legal
perspective, and a legal structure, letting the attorney know in any of these things, what the desired outcome is, and

then let the attorney help you put that together.

Russ 30:37

Yeah, and the key, the key, the reason | brought it up, the way | did is because most of the time, we don't ask the right
questions, because we don't parse the problem into bite sized pieces, it’s this big jumbled up mess in our mind. So he
says, What are you trying to accomplish, and we kind of wander around trying to find the pieces, what | have found
is if | just parse it, again, if | just sit down and say, Okay, this is what | want, | just focus exclusively on what | want.
And then | go here and say, Well, okay, this is what the investor wants. And this is what investor any wants investor B,
investor, C, you know, whatever it is, and then and then, you know, you can use the I'm a big fan of the Venn diagram,
you know, you you look for the overlap what is in common that everybody wants, and that's your basis, you start with
a structure that will give you the most in common that everybody wants. And then you have to figure out if there's
tweaks you can do to bring more of what everybody wants into the mix, you know, there's always going to be
compromises typically, you can't give everybody everything they want. But you can, you can give them a lot, but but
to keep it simple, in terms of being able to really isolate, you have to parse it, you have to break it down and focus on
each individual party. And then and then bring it all together at the end, if you try and start in the middle, and then
wander it gets, it's hard for your advisors to understand what you're trying to do. And then you take the things that
you're trying to do, and you parse them up between, okay, this is legal, this is privacy, this is tax, this is control. You
know, this is personal use, whatever it is, and you begin to break all those components up, too. And the same thing is
true, when you're putting a deal together. If you look at everything a deal is capable of doing. Often, you'll find it has
a lot more to offer than what you're offering because you're just looking at it maybe through your own lens. And you
can get more people into the deal. If you understand more about what the deal is capable of delivering, even if it's
something you wouldn't necessarily think of. I'm guessing for some of you, either on this call now, or watching this in
the future, when you see a guy like Dave Zook talk about how he markets tax benefits to his investors. And that's one
of his key marketing strategies. A lot of people that don't have big tax problems, don’t think that way. And they
would have never thought of it. He thought of it because that’s who he was going in. Just like buck Joffrey thinks
about what it's like to be a high paid busy professional, who's intelligent, but doesn't have the time to really use their
intelligence to be an investor. What do they need? What do they want, and maybe that's different, there's going to
be some tax, but there’s going to be some other things that they're looking forward to. So always make sure that you
really understand everything your deal can do. And then the needs of all the people that you have out there so that
you know how to best offer because you don't have to tell the whole story on every deal to every investor, you only
© Russ 54:40

Yeah, you know, in this business, especially right now, it's a little bit of the Wild, Wild West. And | like it that way. I'd
rather have it be that way. You know, people, I'd rather have the freedom and the responsibility. But to have the
freedom you do have to have the responsibility and if enough people go out there and screw the thing up, they'll
start clamping down and then they'll regulate us and then we won't have as much opposition So, one of the visions
behind forming the club and doing things the way we do it, not just about hyping people up and getting everybody
hot and bothered and collecting dues and having rah rah meetings, it's like we got to get into the weeds of what it
takes to do this business right? at a tactical level. And there's just a lot to think about. The good news is, is everything
that you're learning is leverageable. Right? | think Ash is a lot of work for a small deal it is do a big deal then it's

worth it. But you know, you do the do the moderate size deals in the beginning big enough where you can afford to
pay for the help. it’s small enough that you know, if you screw up a little bit, it’s not going to be you know,
devastating or career ending. Okay, so we've got a couple minutes left to top of the hour, we'll do one more question.
So who's it going to be? You've had all this time to think of a great question. Okay, what oh, yeah, there we go. Okay,
the the JD

55:57

no one was stepping up and we've got 30 seconds left. | got an email yesterday, maybe the day before about

JO

November seemed kind of vague. There was no link for hotel rooms. | don’t want to buy plane tickets for nothing.

© Russ 56:11

Oh, the meetup about that. Yes. Yeah. So it’s happening. Just hit membership up. | don't know all the details, but it’s
happening. I'm 99.9% sure it’s gonna be in Dallas. If we have a hotel deal, they sent

56:25

out an email, but there was, there was no hotel link. So

_JO

@ Russ 56:29

yeah, okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, take that up with membership. I'll make a note. Okay. Anything else on the topic of
legal ratio? You got any closing thoughts?

o ) Mauricio 56:42

No, I'm always amazed when a bunch of people show up for legal. So | appreciate you guys making the time and
always look, not only you guys here, but anybody on the platform, if you've got any time you've got questions or
whatever, feel free to come here is the resource, please use and abuse me.

@ Russ 56:57
_)oO

JO

disclosures. But we really don't, we don't often work hard enough at looking at all those risks, especially the risks that
apply to us because most of those disclosures are targeted at explaining the risks to the investors, but be keenly
aware of the risks to you. And try to put as many things into the operating agreement the documents is you can to
indemnify yourself against those things, certainly that you should not be, you know, responsible for. Okay. All right.

So that was good. What else who else has a question from risio? David, you had your hand up before SAP your up?

43:18

Yeah. Hey, everyone. Hey, Mauricio, we kind of talked about this ratio on a call, | just wanted to kind of give you a
little update. And just kind of clarify, but just for everybody's I've been invited to join a Canadian company to do a
syndication. And we finally got an okay from a securities lawyer in Canada, that we don't have to file with the SEC in
the US, but they did separate the subscription agreement for a us and for a Canadian. Do you still think that's
advisable that me being a US citizen join this company to go after us? investors?

Mauricio 44:15

Know | mean, you know, we've talked about a little bit but | don’t know what they're smoking up there. | mean, it you
know, they're, well, | think they switched lawyers at some point. We actually so So Dave, and | talked about this and
we had a conversation with our securities lawyers and he admitted Oh, God, | didn’t know all this stuff. And he
obviously he doesn't know | don't know anything about Canadian securities laws. | wouldn't expect to see a securities
attorney in Canada to know anything. But anytime you're selling securities in the US to us persons. You are You are
bound by the federal and state securities laws in that country. They've come up with some line of reasoning is that
the way they've structured it for some reason, they didn't have to comply with all these rules. And | certainly didn't
find anything in there. their reasons for didn't make any sense to me. And | thought the last time we connected with
the attorney, after we spoke, you seem like he Oh, | didn't realize all these rules and everything | gotcha, | gotcha,
gotcha. And | think what happened is that the Canadian company changed lawyers and the other lawyer just said,
No, go ahead and do it. So | certainly would not be getting involved. If they're, | presume they're just trying to save a
few bucks to not hire a US securities attorney, and make sure that they're selling securities in the US compliant with
federal securities laws. | don’t know what they're smoking up there to be honest. Yeah, they

45:32

the lawyer that they had that we we talked to was a basically a GP, a general practice lawyer type thing. And so he
reached out to his friend that is a securities lawyer, that's what they do. And they said, because it's a Canadian
company, that's what they're basing it on, that you're not investing, you know, that you're investing the shares. And so
it still doesn't seem right to me with everything, right. |

Mauricio 45:58

mean, I'm happy to join this business, let's take it offline. But I'm happy to have that conversation with the new |
haven't spoke with the new attorneys, because | look, I'm as Russ knows, I'm, | don't have an ego in any of this stuff. If
somebody shows me a statute or some rule that | just didn't know about, or something, I'm happy to review, and
they'll reveal with an open mind. But | I'm not aware of any exemption. | know that if you're a public company, there's
some some some not limitations, but a little bit of easing of the the onerous reporting requirements if you're a foreign
company, but if it’s a private offering, relying on 506, B, or 506, C, which is my understanding is what this is going to
be, | don't see how you get around that if you're selling in the US to us, Britain. Now, if the US person travels to
Canada, and there's an event that happens in Canada, and everything is drawn up there, and they sign the
documents in Canada, and then they come back to the US maybe, but if you're gonna come down to the US, and
email people in the US and basically sell to us persons, | don’t see any way you're getting around the basics of it,
which is you've got to register that security with the SEC, or you've got to find an exemption to registration. Okay.

Russ 47:03

And this actually brings up | think, another important topic, again, | go back, and this just the way my brain works,

but it's, it's been very helpful over the course of my career, and hopefully, it'll be helpful to you, is | just break things
down into chunks, | parse things out, right. So in this case, you have to understand that when you're dealing with
anything having to do with the law, the law has to establish jurisdiction. So always look for patterns and principles.
First thing you have to understand is jurisdiction who has jurisdiction, right? You know, sometimes it's the real estate
department, sometimes it's the security sometimes it's both, sometimes it's the IRS, sometimes it’s, you know, the
Department of corporations could be a lot of different. So you have to be aware of who the regulatory authorities
are, in the various places and ways you do business, you need to then think about their jurisdiction. And, you know, to
the extent you have control over jurisdiction, you you, you want to, you know, kind of dictate your your documents
and your behavior that things happen in the right places. So jurisdiction can get established by what you're doing. It
can be established by where you're doing it where the deed happens. It could, it could have to do where the property
is, it could have to do with your nationality, or base of operations or business. And same for the investor. So when
you're dealing across state lines, or country lines, you have to be aware of all these things. And so, you know, if most
of us don't, don't stop and think about it, but again, if you just draw out your deal on a, on a piece of paper, and then
start asking yourself, okay, where's the property? Where are the investors? Where are the presentations being made?
Where's the paperwork signed? Right? Then you start beginning to understand where the possible jurisdictions and
the nature of what's going on? Is this a real estate deal? Is there tax implications? Is there securities implications? And
then then you begin to understand, when you when you start getting in this back when Russia was General Counsel
for us, | mean, you know, he didn't have as much experience as he has right now. But he was our quarterback, it was
like, okay, we would go hire specialty attorneys and all these different jurisdictions. And he had to run around and
reconcile all their different opinions. And that's kind of what you're hearing right now. Now, the other thing is, is when
you do business with someone else, a partner or your serve as a director, or an advisor, some of the things that we do
in building our brand, right, if we can have our name associated with a deal, we do it because oh, | can be associated
with that deal. And that's great. But the problem is, when you're associated with the deal, there's also liability. And so
that's where you look at what are the liabilities of being associated with the deal and ask yourself first of all, | want a
waiver or Some type of a limitation of liability signed by the person I'm doing this for, they may not be paying you.
But at the very least, you want to make sure that you know, they have DNO insurance. And you're covered by that
DNO insurance, if you're going to be putting yourself in a position, maybe there's things that can be worked into the
agreement, you know, so you're going to have the legal liability of the entity structure, you're going to have the, you
know, the the insurance coverage of whatever policies are in place. And then you could have some type of an
indemnification from the other principles that people involved in, hey, I'm willing to do this for you. But if something
goes sideways, you need to indemnify me. So this goes back, once again, to understanding what risks you're
exposing yourself to by whatever it is you're doing. And then making sure that you have a strategy to mitigate as
many of those risks as possible to the various tools that are available. And in this case, there's three, you've got the
legal structure, meaning the jurisdiction, and and being in a place where you know, they can't get at you, because
they don't have jurisdiction, police force them to jump through the hoop of changing the jurisdiction to come after
you, you're going to and then of course, the entity structure itself, the corporate veils, if you will, then you're going to
have your insurance, which we talked about it, you know, secrets of successful syndication, not just your insurance,
but the other party's insurance as well. And then you're going to have the indemnifications that you could ask for,
from whoever the deep pockets in the room are. And, you know, you may not get everything you want, you may
decide it's not politically or relationally wise to ask, but you should still be aware. So you can decide which which
thing you want to negotiate for which things you're willing to let go. You know, and the danger always early in your
career is you're just naive. You're very naive about everything that you're doing. And so that's why we have calls like
this is so that you hear things because you don't even know what to ask, you don't even know what you don't know.
Mauricio 14:37

There is | like to use and I'm happy to somehow get it Russ will figure it out. But when the SEC came out with 506 C,
remember that that allowed syndicators to advertise and all that stuff. They wanted to add a rule 509 which doesn't
actually exist, but there's a technically a rule if you Google it, there’s a rule 509 which never got adopted, but it was
what the FCC wanted to require under a 506. c they want to do Hey, here are all the disclaimers that we want 506 c
people to put in their website and put on and stuff. And it just a lot of the stuff we've just been talking about, Hey,
this is not this is only for accredited. And there's risk, you know, past performance, all that kind of stuff. And so even
though it never got adopted, my view is that it's a good way to figure out what's on the city’s mind and what they
really are looking for. And so | just stole it. And so | basically took the rule 509, | kind of you know, it's drafted a little
bit weird. And so | kind of mesh that into sort of a disclaimer on on your webs on your web page and any landing
page that you may have. And | think it's, it’s, you know, if you're doing a 506 C, for sure, if you're doing a 506 B, you
shouldn't have anything on there anyway, that's even close to being advertising or investment related, it's all value
add, and it should be all articles about you and your whatever stuff so but on a 506 c i like that's the one | like to use
quite a bit. And don't be shy. | mean, one of the things that you might not be a bad idea for everyone. And | can
probably also provide links to a bunch of websites. But if you look at websites from broker dealers, they're not shy
about their footnotes right? Or their their disclaimers, like everybody wants to well, where am | gonna put it? | mean,
they're literally have sometimes pages at the bottom of stars and crosses and footnotes or whatever. So don't be
afraid if the disclaimer because what | have is, you know, it’s a bunch of bullet points, it looks kind of long, but it's
what you know, your webpage is infinite, | think so you shouldn't be afraid to, to put footnotes on your website. And if

they're long, they're long, it’s definitely gonna protect you.

Russ 16:41
All right, thank you. Yeah. And | think another thing on that, too, is just in terms of wind, you probably should be

serious about your disclaimers. If you're talking about anything where you're discussing a return on investment, if
you're throwing a number out, you know, like, Hey, we did a deal. And this is what happened. And here's what we
return to our investors. It almost feels like a solicitation even though the deal is closed, even though it’s no longer
available, even though you're just telling your story kind of goes into that, you know, past performance is not
indicative of future results, kind of that boilerplate thing. But if you're ever talking about anything, where you're
discussing investment results, especially if you're putting numbers on it, then you're going to be want to be mindful of
having disclaimers, either in your text or on your display, whatever it is you're using. Okay. Okay, anybody else?

Question for Mauricio.

Mauricio 17:36

Along those lines, Ross, if anyone out there is advertising and you know, wanting to put things on Facebook, which is
if you're doing a 506 C is fine. That's not the place to put all the returns. And especially in the specific return your
goal is to get them off of that Facebook or social media or podcast, get into your landing page or your website
where you can throw a bazillion disclosures. And that because obviously if you're if you're doing a tweet, or a
Facebook post, you don't have room to put a 500 word or character disclaimer, right?

Russ 18:05
Yeah, think of it this way, just just these platforms are fishing ponds. What you want to do is put put a hook in the

water, hook someone and reel them in and get them out of the pond and into your into your boat. That's the deal. So

if you if you think that it’s where you're going to carry on a conversation, if you think it’s where you're going to make
© Mauricio 22:16

_JO

You're asking me to get inside the head of a vs. Yes. If you think of when you see what | mean, though, right? Look at
look at the SEC. They do want capital formation. | mean, that's the whole reason the JOBS Act happened back in
2012. You know, that was an

Russ 22:35

Obama administration. Right, right. | mean, but at the end of the day, the bureaucrats | mean, they need money
moving.

Mauricio 22:45

Yeah. So that's what that's that’s the whole reason why we allow them to think about it. 506 c doesn't really make a
ton of sense. It's like it's a private offering, but you're allowed to advertise to the public. | mean, it's it doesn't seem
doesn't really match. | mean, it sounds like it’s a public offering, like, what's the difference between a 506 C, which is
a private offering, versus a public offering? | mean, it’s very, it just doesn’t make sense. But they specifically
mentioned in the in the statute, when it came out in the rules that in order to encourage capital formation, and they
wanted to do this, so | think it's an issue for is, again, you got to remember that these are, from the SEC perspective is
a really small raises, even though for us, you know, 2 million 3,000,005 millions a lot. It's nothing compared to the
hundreds of millions and billions of these other guys are doing. And so as we discussed earlier, to become a broker,
it's really onerous on | mean, you're not going to become a broker unless you're, you're really playing at a really high
level. And so there's a gap, like, if you want to legitimately refer, look, it's got to be disclosed, everybody needs to
know about it, it's going to have to be in writing. | mean, they're just trying to help the little guy, which may not be if
we're not talking 100 grand, but even 510 million, helping the little guy because otherwise becoming a broker is so

expensive and onerous. It doesn't make any sense.

Russ 23:56

Okay, good question. What else who else has a question? legal question from recio. Free law, law time, Gil. Okay, it's
an IQ test, you can do it. So

24:14

how you doing? | I'm putting the deal together. And | it’s basically a vacation rental. | think | mentioned before, but
basically, what I'm, | guess asking is, | don't know, would it be with a fractional ownership type structure, work in a
situation where somebody would be, you know, say, assigned a certain period of time? And | guess, would you be
able to bring on people later as far as that, you know, that type of structure as opposed to like, you know, timeshare

or something like that.

Mauricio 24:50

I'm not crystal clear on what you're proposing. So let me give you a general calm and then I'll have a good chance to
sort of clarify a little bit | mean, the answer is typically you You can do pretty much whatever you want, as long as
you're disclosing it, you always need from a logistical standpoint don't want to do something that's so complicated
because he was advertising because he was actually allowed to advertise. But it was because he was basically
making these promises these 15% returns and triple your money in two years or whatever. And he he didn't know the
thing yet.

Russ 11:21

So the question no basis in reality,

Mauricio 11:23

representation. And so that's the key point there, though. And it goes to what you're saying is, even if you are allowed
to go either advertise or even if you're making communications, it doesn't mean that you have carte blanche
authority to do whatever you want, you definitely want to have all those disclaimers. Those of you who have worked
me know that anytime you send out an email, you want to make sure there's a disclaimer at the bottom, | like to put
now even if you're doing five or six C's, | want to put a disclaimer on your websites, let him know, hey, it’s a Bible
succeed. There's risk, all that kind of stuff.

Russ 11:51
Yeah, and | think the other thing in the beginning, especially anything that you're going to do script, and make sure

that you have your securities counsel review that script just to be sure, after a little while, you'll you'll learn. But do
spend some time if you haven't done this, and again, I’m going to impose upon ratio to put together some tutorials
on this. But but learn to become very aware of what blue sky laws are forward looking statements are what
constitutes a solicitation, those, those are very important concepts. And the main thing is, is don't hype. And |
personally, | think when you're in a business like this, that is full of hype stirs, the best way to stand out is to be very
authentic, to be very genuine, to be very accurate and sincere and you'll actually be a fresh breath, breath of fresh
air. So don't be afraid to do that don't feel like you have to compete because you know, right now you're looking at
an environment where the Federal Reserve has basically come out and said, Hey, yields are going to be nothing for
at least the next two to three years. And so | think there's a lot of opportunity on the debt side, | think there's a lot of
opportunity for people to look at the income producing and tax benefit aspects of real estate, and then compare
and contrast that to dividend paying stocks and the risks there. And to bonds and the risks there. | think you can
make the argument that real estate can produce better results with less risk, but you have to understand how to
compare and contrast those Of course, that's not a legal thing. But it is something that | think you want to start
paying attention to. Okay, so we have bantered back and forth enough, I'm going to open it up. I'm going to put it
back on gallery view so | can see all your handsome and beautiful faces. So just wave your hand at me if you got a
question, Jana, who's appearing as Randy,

Janna Hubbs 13:49

| know, because Randy kicked me out of the office. He’s doing some work. You know, | had a question. | think that's
really great information so far, with the disclaimers. We've put a lot of disclaimers on all of our Doc's because we've
worked with Mauricio or Jillian, but | need to check our websites and we just redid one of our websites. Is there. A
particular disclaimer like one of our websites is articles and postings and property management and various things
should we be using a particular disclaimer or | know that one of our fund management's we have a website, we've
got the disclaimer, | believe on there that's out of our operating docs and that type of thing. But is there any more
clarity on that?
having to be a broker. So huge, it’s huge. And | was expecting to read it like oh, there’s gonna be some huge caveat
gonna be like, yeah, whatever, whatever, whatever. But in fact, it’s just again, it just came out | haven't seen anything
commentary wise or something that doesn't make me believe what | just read. And it's very short, it’s not like it's a
huge 20 page or 100 page thing. It’s like a two or three pager. Maybe | can send you the link or something if you
want to post it. But you know, we already have let me just give a little bit of background and then I'm just gonna say
this off the top my head because | didn't even think about talking about it, but so we have something called we have
brokers, right? And in order to receive compensation for referring people to a syndicator and get compensated, you
have to be a broker, a broker dealer, right? And forget it. That's compliance galore. | don't remember

Russ 02:53

just a securities broker dealer as opposed to a real estate broker. It's a different Yeah. different, different authoritative

or legislative regulatory agency.

Mauricio 03:03

Yes, thanks for the clarification. It's it's technically under FINRA. But | remember you and I, Russ talked about this
probably 15 years ago and looked into it and it's just a nightmare not only to get to that point of becoming a broker
dealer, but then all the compliance that you have to deal with because you're now under the regulatory nose of
FINRA and the SEC there's always been this idea of being a finder which doesn't exist at the federal level at the SEC
level it only exists in some of the states but Texas for example is one of them where it's a fine line but you know, in
theory you can get compensated for literally making the introduction just for making the introduction not whether
they're not contingent on whether they invest or don't invest or whatever, but literally give you like an easy example
of a rush | know you've got 10 people on your list that have kind of high net worth individual I'd love to access them
I'll pay you $1,000 for you to send an email on my behalf or something and somehow bring in my my way, Russ
wouldn't be endorsing me wouldn't be doing anything like that he would literally make be making an introduction
and in theory you can get paid for that cannot be transaction based. But anyway, it's a really a fine line and nobody
my opinion, nobody can do it, that they're they always screw up, they're always somehow involved or making a
recommendation or something. But these new rules will allow you let me just give you kind of sort of the the the
awesomeness in my view is number one, you'll be able to make introductions to other people and get paid
transaction based compensation, which is huge, right? So | can literally go out, find a bunch of investors or people |
already know and refer them I’m gonna use Russell's example, Russ as a syndicator. I'm going to refer them to Russ,
and if they invest in Russell's deal, they'll be able to compensate me whatever we agree on. Like the main limitations
right now are that | can only refer the accredited investors. So that’s one limitation. And | can't generally solicit so |
can't just go out there and start marketing myself and trying to gather people in but if | have to In my existing
network, and I'm probably going to be something similar to having a pre existing substantive relationship, I'm going
to assume, but | can certainly go into my network, | can talk to those people, | can, | can vet them, | can prequalify
them, | can do all this work, | can make an introduction, | can actually show them. The documentation, | can show
them the ppm | can go through the ppm with them. | can't make any recommendations, obviously, as to the quality
of the of the deal, | can't make any representations as to the value of it. But | can be pretty sure | can be part of the
conversation which as a finder, you can as a finder, you can't be on the phone, in that conversation, you can't be at
the meeting, you can't really participate other than making the introduction here, there appears to be some, some
some steps that you're going to be able to do, the only thing you're really not able to do other than again, advertise
or taking non accredited is you can't participate in the formation, the strategy and everything of the docks or the or
the deal of the structure of the deal. So that may, in theory, | think that may eliminate sort of the co sponsors, or
there's a lot of a lot of people who are raising capital and then getting compensated as a part of the GP and so that
that might not work. But certainly now if somebody you know somebody, you meet somebody, and they say, hey,

look, | can bring in a million bucks. I've got a bunch of investors that | know, if | give you these investors and they
JO

JO

JO

jo

have to | mean, the disclosures have to contain, you know all the risks and then you don't you don't withhold any of
that. But you know, you show people the thing you're most likely to be interested. If it gets them to the table, you're
done. You don't have to talk to them about the rest. If they're saying yes, then then you can say yes, and that’s not a
disclosure thing. That's just a sales thing, what it takes to get somebody to the table. But knowing what your deal will
do and what the needs are is having more more cards in your hand to play. Okay, what else? You guys got a question

set?

34:03

| think Dave was ahead of me. You wanna go first, Dave?

Russ 34:05

Now your hand went up first. You snooze, you lose.

34:09

Okay, thank you. Hey guys, so | have a feeling the dance was going to be no but want to ask it anyways,

Russ 34:16
that attitude.

34:20

So | have a | have an investor that we are currently in one. It's just one LLC, one investor and they're interested in
reinvesting into a new syndication. That's one that ratio has been helping me out for a couple months. They've asked
if there's any way to do 1031 exchange on it. | spoke with my CPA he already said probably not but just check with
the your your securities attorney and check with the 1031 custodian, 1030 minutes custodian social talk to my
securities attorney. They also said probably not any, any way to legally do this where the LLC can come into a new

deal without actually coming in and encumbering title.

Russ 35:04

Think you gotta unmute Mercia.

Mauricio 35:08

Sorry, is the question whether you can 1031 into your syndication?

35:14

Correct? Yeah.
_)oO

Russ 35:16

Yeah. From one LLC, so being a member in an LLC and to being a member, but

Mauricio 35:21

no. So | mean not to say, I'm about to say yes, though let's let's ask a better question, | guess is how do you tend to
do one into a syndication so we do that quite a bit, I'm working on three of them, | think right now. So you can
definitely bring an investor in, that has direct ownership in another property that needs to 1031 and put their money
somewhere, they can come into your syndication your offering, they won't be able to come into your LLC, because
that's not a like kind exchange, they would have to be coming in as direct property title owners into your deal. So
what ends up happening typically, is let's just make up a number, but let's just say that this person is the tenant ends
up having a 10% ownership, then what happens is you'll have the investor come in, we'll own 10% of the property,
direct title, then you will create your syndication LLC to own the remaining 90%. And you're going to raise your
money in there. And then you have a ti c agreement between the syndication LLC and the 1031 investor that ties it all
together and has all the you know, who's going to have the decision making abilities, all that stuff, there are some,
there are some limitations, but they're not securities related limitations, they're actually tax limitations, there’s an IRS
regulation, | think it’s 2000 dash 2002. That that's like 15 bullet points of kind of rules you need to follow. And for
example, you would not be able to have a preferred return structure, you have to the returns have to mirror the
ownership percentage, you won't be able to really charge some really, there's no carried interest. | mean, there's

some limitations. So a lot of the times you may not be able to profit as much as you usually can from that particular
investor. But if for whatever reason, you just you need their cash just to close the deal, and you maybe you're less
worried about making the 20% carried interest on on that, then, but it's definitely something we can do they, they
just can't come into your LLC. And and even if you're asking specifically if it's an investment, another syndication is
trying to come into an investor in your syndication, that's a little bit different because they what they own obviously
isn't property. And to do a 1031. Now you actually have to own title to the property to begin with. That makes sense,

s/t

does and that’s helpful because | didn't even know that | didn't know that there were options available. So that's the

Mauricio 37:32

video there's a video that's pretty decent, | did it a year ago probably needs to be update exactly was not aware of
the IRS regs at the time of the video, but on my YouTube, there's a video that | did, that kind of maps it all out and
diagrams and all that fun stuff. The big limitation, | think is the preferred. So a lot of people do have a preferred
return these days, you know, a percent pref to the investors and then at 20, you wouldn't be able to do that at the tip
level. And by the way, technically, you've got two syndications going and one offering at the T IC level where you
really just have one investor want one passive investor. So hopefully that person is accredited. And then the next one,
obviously, is the syndication. And the other big, just the last thing, I'll just see if there's a follow up, but there are some
risks and we want to disclose those but not only is there a risk of the temporary won't get involved, and then then
that investor blaming you for it. But there’s a risk because even though we're going to put all the safeguards in the
documentation about you having all the control you having the ability to sell whenever you want, at the end of the

day, they are going to have veto power, because in order to sell the property, they're gonna have to sign on the
October 2020 - Ask the Mentor Q&A LIVE Call on
Legal and Com...

@ Fri, 10/8 2:50PM @58:45

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

investor, disclaimers, deal, people, risks, syndication, mauricio, structure, question, securities, llc, securities attorney, business,

talked, jurisdiction, offering, property, legal, understand, parse

SPEAKERS

Russ, Mauricio, Janna Hubbs

) Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club it's Russ for another edition of Ask the mentors This one is on legal with our legal
adviser, Attorney Mauricio Roald, how are you doing? Mauricio doing good,

 ) Mauricio 00:30

my friend excited. There's some new stuff in the pipeline that hopefully we'll get to talk about today. Good,

© Russ 00:35

good. Well, we have a pretty good group of people, some new members. So we're excited about that. And then we
have some some the old guard also. So that's cool. But we didn’t have any questions submitted. So Well, those of you
who are on the call, if you can stay muted until it until you're ready to say something. That's great. It looks like you alll
are that's that's awesome. But Mauricio, why don't you go ahead and just open up with whatever's on your mind. And
| may have a couple of things. I'm not sure. And then that'll give everybody a chance to formulate any questions they
have.

© Mauricio 01:10

Well, well, thank you. They welcome everyone. Thanks for making the time. Hopefully, it'll go smoothly. | just just
moved so | got new internet, new everything. So But hey, I'm actually pumped because, you know, | think last time we
talked about maybe two times ago, we talked about the new rules about accredited investor that come out and |
remember | wasn't really that excited. I’m like, I've seen this before. It's potentially going to be great, but nothing
really earth shattering, right? Well, literally two weeks ago, because of today’s Yeah, it’s literally two weeks ago today,
the SEC came out with proposed rules. And granted, they're proposed and it's early stages, and | get all that. But
essentially, they're going to open the one to open up the ability of syndicators to refer or non syndicators to refer
money raisers. It basically refers to refer passive investors to the syndicators and be able to get paid legally without
JO

JO

That's how it was for us, | found out the hard way when you know, everything started hitting the fan and all sudden,
I'm learning about all these concepts and principles. But | go back to this concept of parsing when you parse your
deals out by jurisdictions by, by by parties, breaking the deals up by, you know, risks and rewards and roles and
responsibilities, you just get in the habit of parsing things and looking at things deeply isolated from other things so
that you can see clearly, | have found that really helps you see the whole picture. And then later, you know, you can
put it all together. But you have to understand when you're dealing with your technicians, they're all in silos. And you
have to be the generalist. And it’s very difficult because as a generalist, you know, you go and you just say something
kind of vague, and somebody answers a question very specifically in their silo, and you get a yes, and you think it’s a
Yes, for what you have in your mind, which is this big, broad thing, but in fact, it was only a Yes, for this real narrow
silo. So you have to really be specific, so sorry to dig so much into the weeds. But you know, when it comes to the law,
and managing risk, and all this, the devil really is in the details. The good news is, you know, there are a lot of
protections afforded to you that you can put in place, but you do have to know where the risks are, and, and how to
manage those. And that's how you get the most out of your advisors and how you structure deals that that work for
everybody, including yourself. Received everything you want to add on that before we tossed to the next question.
Now you got

Mauricio 53:39
to know I'll reach out to David, but yeah, | think there's, | think you hit it on that nail, Russ.

Russ 53:45

Okay, well, we

53:46

could we could have a call offline, you know, and I'm happy to pay for the advice, you know, because they're fighting
it, you know?

Mauricio 53:54
Yeah, let's, let's talk, let's talk.

Russ 53:55

| mean, there there, there's going to be times where somebody approaches you, and you think that you're getting this
great deal, and I'm so lucky, they chose me. But really, they're pushing off a big chunk of a liability onto you, hoping
you're too naive to realize it. And you don't want to be that because it’s I'm not saying you wouldn't want to take the
risk. But if you do you want to make sure you negotiate compensation commensurate with the risk, right? You didn't,

you know, its risk adjusted return. So you have to understand there is too

54:24

so they kind of have kind of, you know, schooled them on the, you know, what I've learned over the last few years,
you know, with the real estate guys, so it’s just just trying to see them there. They just keep pushing their point.
JO

a presentation, then you're thinking about it wrong. And you'll end up doing the wrong thing, because you're thinking
about it wrong. But if you just think of it as Hey, I’m there to put something in that looks tasty, get someone to bite,
and then have a method to kind of hook them and reel him in, which is usually getting an email address or getting
him to come into some form of engagement. And once you have them there, then you can continue the nurturing.

And it goes back to this thing we talked about in one of the tutorials we did on the OP side is everything's a process.
So if you're if you're putting stuff out there and social media, it's a process and you need to know what that process
is, look, I'm going to put something out there. And then what it should have some form of a call to action, what does
that call to action when they bite what happens next. And then when you move them over to wherever it is you move
into then what happens and you just keep working it through step by step until you have a process defined. Now you
may have you know forks in the road where they bite and then it could go this way or could go that way they could
call or if they decide not to call, then you're going to send them a series of three emails. And at the end of that you're
going to issue a call to action to set up a call, whatever it is, but take the time to kind of flowchart all that out. And
when I'm on the topic of flow charts. from a legal perspective, the same thing should be true with your handling of
funds. When funds come in, you should know where they're going to be received for every deal that you're doing. And
you should know what the chain of custody of those funds is going to be. As they work their way through your
banking system, to ultimately being invested in wherever they're going to be invested. Obviously the things you want
to be mindful of is called mingling, which means you don't want to put invest project a money in with Project B
money. And you certainly never, ever, ever, ever, never, ever, ever, ever want to take investor money and put it in your
general operating account ever. Don't ever do that. | mean, if you don't have an entity account set up, | would say
you can do two things, you can give it to your attorney and have them handle it and one of their trust accounts. Or
you could set up a single purpose bank account to be the isolated sequestered place that you store the funds until

you can get it into the entity fund. And correct me if | misstated anything there, Mauricio?

Mauricio 20:39

No, we absolutely want to have what's required to make sure that's in a segregated account. And there really is no
reason by the time you're there, by the time you're in a position to be receiving funds, there's no reason why that
entity shouldn't be set up in a bank account set up already ready to go that should be happening weeks before we

even start officially sending, you know, offering documents out to people.

Russ 20:59

Well, | mean, sometimes when you're out there wheeling and dealing, and you find a hot deal, and you don't even
have an entity but you got to tie the property up and you call up somebody, you know, that is part of your inner circle
or whatever and say, hey, I've got this deal, | need to put you know, $50,000 down right now, | don't have it, but |
want to grab the deal. And you have to you know, but you've got to work something out where you can do that. And
then you're going to form the entity after the fact and do an assignable contract and all that stuff. We've done that,
those types of things. But my point is, is that you always want to make sure at least the very least you have a
segregated bank account and you're not doing that with somebody that you don't have a good close personal
relationship with. That's very tight with you that you know, you know, you guys know each other. So, anyway, okay, so

what else who else has a question? legal question, john.

21:51

Hi, burrito. My name is john. Um, the first thing that comes to mind is Why? | know it’s not because the SEC loves us.
And | know it's not because they think syndicators aren't making enough money. There's got to be some powerful
force that wants that to happen, or else it wouldn't. Why would they consider this change?
dotted line, there's not going to be a lender that’s going to sell it who's going to who's going to loan on it, and there's
not going to be a probably a title company that's going to give you title unless that 10% owner signs off on it. So
they're gonna have a little bit of veto power in case there's any issues.

Russ 38:45

So I'm gonna tack on a couple things Mauricio, and you correct me if | overstep but first of all good, good knowledge
here because | didn't know what you just said. So that is actually really informative. But | think number one is once
you've done all your homework, and you've kind of figured out how you think you can do the structure and you've
vetted it with your securities attorney, you've vetted it with your, your tax attorney, and you've decided that you
understand what the risks are to you in doing this, because it's important that you understand what the risks are to
you, except knowing the kind of guy you are you're so fixated on solving the investors problem you might forget to
ask about what exposures you're taking in the process of trying to solve the problem. So that's why | think it's always
important as a discipline to isolate all the people in the transaction all the people at the party, including yourself,
and then and then go through kind of the the pluses and the minuses so that you're you're keenly aware, but once
you've got it done, you decided you're willing to do it, then you | would say | would suggest that it's really important.
You take all of that and broker call between your advisors and their advisors, but you their tax advisor to sign off on
it. If the thing blows up, you need somebody else who gave them the green light that wasn't you, or your team. Okay,
and so you know you we always get a little nervous when you introduce somebody as advisors in because you're not
on your team. But the good news is, is if you're really diligent, and you're helping them, you can look at it as a threat
that, hey, you know, this person could poopoo, my deal or whatever. Or you could look at it as an opportunity to win
their confidence and they could maybe become a referral source to you. So to me, | say, do your homework, do a
good job, be as supportive and non threatening to that person as possible. So they don't think you're trying to take
their client and hook them up with your guy. And then | think that you'll end up finding it's there's more upside than
downside. The second thing is in your documents, you want to make sure that you have appropriate waivers of
liability. | mean, if you're going to do this, then | think that they need to say that they've relied upon their people, and
they're not holding you responsible. If this doesn’t happen. | mean, you're responsible for executing on your plan. But
if for some reason there's something faulty in the strategy that's on them. Right. | think that's important. Yeah.

Mauricio 41:16

And I'm glad you brought that up. Because that's that |, as | mentioned at the beginning, there's no issues from a
structural standpoint, there’s no issues from an SEC minutes, right? It’s purely a tax thing. So | don't, | don't move a
finger unless | get the IFTA originally was thinking | was asked for the 1031 intermediate, but they won't. They don't
they don't stick their neck out for anything. But the CPA, that's the person who's that got the malpractice insurance,
if they screw up, that's who you're going to look to. And from my perspective, | looked for the client to make sure that
| got the CPAs client and then my clients perspective, they want to make sure that the 1031 CPA signs off on
whatever structure because | mean, | can read the IRS regs and | can see those 15 bullet points, but I'm not a CPA, so

| need somebody to sign off on it,

Russ 41:58

you write in your you know, wouldn't cover that anyway, right? It's not your area of professional expertise. So you
need to be indemnified by an insurance policy that is going to actually protect you. And that's going to be the CPAs.
You know. Okay, | thought there was one more thing in that, but | think that the big rule there is, we all look at the
upside, we all get excited about the deal, we all worry about solving the investors problems, we all expect everything
to go is scripted, what we tend not to spend enough time doing is really assessing all the things that could go wrong,

we hold our nose and wade through it so that we give the attorney what they need. So they can prepare their their
JO

that you kind of lose the passive investor especially if they're not accredited and not very sophisticated. But you
know, fractional stuff. | mean, think think of it even though we don't think is of T |C agreements as fractional it really
is fractional, | mean, what we're doing one right now there's 40 ice members, one person is owning, you know, 12%.
And we only have 13.4%, like all these different things. So, if you wanted to structure it, I'm not quite sure what you're
trying, why don't you give me the specifics are trying to clarify a little bit how you want to structure it, but I'm sure it’s

gonna be fine.

25:36

| mean, this is a vacation rental. So | mean, you know, this would be something that, you know, investor would come
in, and they would have a period of time that they could use the property. So and that's, that's what I'm saying, at
that point. Now, are we talking about, you know, like a fractional ownership, or maybe it's just something written into

the, into the agreement, you know,

Mauricio 25:57

we've actually done that before. In fact, a lot of folks and maybe some of you are on the call, when we did, when we
were raising capitals, some of us raising money for the Billy's deal. One of the things we were putting in there was
that if you've either became a member of this, this syndication or you invested a little bit more, you would have a
personal use component to the investment, meaning that you would be able to spend a week a year down in Belize
and use the property. But that doesn't, | don't think | would recommend doing a fractional ownership at that point,
you're, you're part of a syndication group that's coming together to acquire the property to acquire this particular
vacation rental property. The LLC will own it from a structural standpoint, and then you'll have however many, how
many passive investors in that LLC. And if you want to put into your business plan, a an ability for a personal use
once a year, up to a weekend or a week, or whatever, you just disclose that in your business plan, because obviously,
it potentially will affect your numbers, right? Every time somebody is using it for a week, it’s not in the rental market.
And so you lose, potentially you're losing revenue. So as long as everybody understands that, | would encourage you
to just think about it because not people think about it. But you can certainly say look, everybody who comes in gets
a weekday or a weekend stay, that's one way to do it, or pay look minimum investments $50,000. But if you put in
100, you get a couple of days free stay or whatever personally used to own it. But you can absolutely do that i don't i
don't know if i do it on a fracture, | don't think you need to do in a fractional, | could just be everybody, the owner is

going to be the LLC and everybody's going to be a part owner of that LLC.

Russ 27:34

Okay, | think just generally speaking, when you're trying to figure out what the best structure is, you have to look at it
from different angles. So one is you have to look at it from the control angle. And you want to make sure that as the
manager, you retain control. And then obviously, if you are in control and the investors are not by definition, it's a
security no matter what structure you use. So control is going to be one thing. The other thing is going to be if if if
there’s tax advantages that you're going to want to spread around, then you're going to want to make sure you use
an entity structure that will facilitate that. And that's going to be a conversation with both the attorneys who's
setting up the structure, but also a CPA who can consult on the tax side of it, then you're going to need to look at the
you know, in some cases, the jurisdiction you met at vacation rental, we did one in Mexico, I've talked about this on
the show, you know many times. But in Mexico, you can’t own waterfront property as a foreigner. So we had to put it
in a Mexican trust called the feet Academy. So and then we had the shares of that we had that feet of Cammisa
owned by a domestic limited liability company. And then | owned my shares in that through through another
domestic limited liability companies look at kind of a layered layered structure. But but you want to take a look at

that sometimes just privacy involved depending on on who your investors are. And you know whether they have
invest, will you pay me XYZ? It sounds like that’s going to be potentially at least that's the way the proposed rules are
gone. Something that we were going to be able to do here, which is | think, kind of a almost a game changer, but it
kind of is

Russ 06:34

Yeah, well, let's watch that. You know, | think that the last big thing that happened was back in the JOBS Act, which
eventually got put into regulations in September 2013, where you could solicit generally solicit under reg C, through
for accredited investors, and that really opened up, you know, the floodgates, so Okay, so your your job is to stay on
top of that, and keep us informed. And then as you learn more, maybe we can create some tutorials for the platform,
so that people kind of understand the ins and outs. | think the bigger picture for today for everybody, especially for
those of you that are new is, and Marissa we should probably create a little tutorial on this also. So put that on your
to do list. But | you know, | was before | got involved in syndication, | was very fortunate to have had become a
registered securities principal, which meant that | was in charge of supervising securities sales people, registered
representatives. And so along those lines, | had to learn things like what blue sky laws were making forward looking
statements | had to understand about the importance of disclosures. And then later we learned about commingling
and making sure that there was a clear line of demarcation between your personal operating funds and the funds of
any particular deal that you were putting together. So | think that the the thing the the lesson there is that from the
moment you are out there holding yourself out for business, the minute you're out there telling your story, especially
in any medium whatsoever. email, text, Facebook, LinkedIn, seminars, PowerPoints, zoom calls, whatever, anytime
you're putting yourself out there that is collectively could be construed as advertising. And when you understand
that, then you need to learn how to be very careful about what you present and how you present it. In the beginning.
Absent these tutorials that we'll put together, kind of what the basics are. The things that you want to pay attention
to are, number one, not making any, anything that could be deemed a promise, you don't want to use words like will
or you know, | just got a solicitation or an email from somebody that used to be in the program. And they said the
returns were predicted. And | responded, | said you might not want to use the word predicted, | think the word you
want to use is projected. See, because projected is like hey, we're anticipating this is what we're planning on. But
predicting something is kind of making this absolute statement that this is what will happen, not what we're hoping
not what we're planning, not where we're working. So you want to really become a master of those little words.
Number one, and and then just understand what constitutes a solicitation. And the best way to make sure that
whatever you say isn't constitute a solicitation is what you see in these disclaimers all the time, which most of us just
glaze right over but now that you're in the business, you should read all these little disclaimers and listen carefully to
what you hear on the radio or what you see printed on brochures that you get, and most of them is that you know
that all investing involves risk that you're not making any forward. Looking statements and that this is general this is
not a solicitation for the offer of any securities and that you should not you should not invest without talking to
qualified advisors and reading the full prospectus or offering memorandum so that's kind of the basics from my point
of view if | missed anything or said misstated anything ratio clean it up for me which you

Mauricio 10:22

know you're spot on especially the word projective that | see a few clients here that are on the call and you'll see that
when | go through business plans that's the first thing | do is | insert the word projected as opposed to you know, the
returns will be or returns are this it's that we project and we have no assurances whatsoever that that's gonna
happen and, and one of the things that I've been talking lately maybe as an update as well is you have to have a
what we call a reasonable belief to make whatever projects and drumming up and again, the projections that you're
making are statements you can't just literally pull them out of the water and that’s another update not to get too
sidetracked. But you know, there was a big issue with with a well known, you know, Grant cardones Most of you

probably are aware of he got into hot water because there's a class action lawsuit against him. And, and it's not
