they are possibly, they should be licensed. Whether or not they are breaking any rules. It's not clear, but they have
four beds each in Okay,

Russ 31:14

I'm gonna stop you right here. Yeah. All right. So this is a great technique. Yeah. Even though we will not understand
the context of your question without the backdrop. Ask your question, first. Good, because it forces you to get really,
really clear. And then we will then be able to ask better clarifying questions, because we know where the where the

story's going. Does that make sense?

Alex Petkas 31:43

Yeah, yeah. Thank you. So how do | get more confidence and clarity, whether in writing or otherwise, that before |
close on this deal, that the operators are willing to work with me to change what they're doing potentially put in
extra work that they didn’t think they would have to?

Russ 32:08
Okay, so this is potentially, like a due diligence question that is going to be kind of baked into an offering strategy.

That's why | felt like Robert would be a better person to answer.

© Staci Gray 32:21

We'll also have some more questions for us. If you want to defer it. Scott has a question. Yeah. And | we said you were
you're waiting. Let

Russ 32:31

me let me just touch on this. Because this was from an operational perspective, just learning how to ask a good
question. Like, you know, when you go to talk to your attorney, and he’s charging $500 an hour, and you take 15
minutes to give them the backstory before you ask the question. That's expensive. So you want to get really good.
You know, if you want great answers, you asked great questions. And then who do you ask you have to kind of
categorize what is the problem solving for so these are the things in the you know, | do it in the morning, when | kind
of journal, you know, my problems and what I'm working on, and | started asking myself questions, and | tried to
process questions, and | work on getting the clarity, so that when I’m been up in the real world, and interacting with
people or searching for things, I'm more clear about what I’m looking for, or who I'm looking for. And then when |
communicate with them, you know, asking them specifically what I'm interested in. So your question, Alex is one of
it's kind of a due diligence question, because you need an assurance before you can move forward with the deal. And
you're trying to figure out how do | make an offer and make sure that | get what | need before I'm put in a position
where | need to close. And in an offering strategy, typically, that would just be an offering contingency. So you would
write your offer, and you would say, my offer is contingent upon this. And now it brings it to their attention. And they
know it's important. And they know you're serious, because you gave them a real offer. And that if they give you the
right answer, they have a reason to believe you're actually going to do the deal. But you have an out if you don't get
JO

all the time. That's what they focus on. Same with bookkeepers. Same with attorneys. You know, Mauricio was trying
to do a lot of different things. And he quickly realized, okay, there's so much to do, I'm just gonna do this one thing,
I'm gonna really focus on this one area, and he kind of let the, the asset protection thing, go to the website, it's good
business, but it was too much to try to stay on top of, | think it was a good decision. So so you know, then you go to
them, and you say, hey, based on what you've seen, happen, bad for other people. People have been sued, where
their structures have been penetrated, where the IRS has seized where something is gone. How do | construct this? Or
where am | vulnerable? But that SWOT analysis, | mean, starting with the baseline, wherever you are, today is where
you are. And the question that you're trying to get to is, am | ready to do business now? No, then if not, what do |
need to do to get to a minimum viable product? And that's a very important concept in building, right? Because you
get this idea is like, Oh, my God, | have to have, you know, the Taj Mahal. And | have to have all this stuff completely
built in my data system, and my website and high end this and that, and | got to spend $500 million, just to, you
know, go do my first single family house syndication? No, no, what you need to know is what is my minimum viable
product for me to be able to do business? What's the minimum that | have to have in order to be able to do business?
And then again, coming back to what we talked about always knowing what the next step is? When | get to a point,
what is that point? What is the next step? Well, then | add this entity or add this structure, upgrade this software,
right? | take my domestic asset protection trust and | move it offshore, or whatever, right? You again, you right now
you don't even know what you don't know. But you learn just by being an environment so good on you, Craig, you've
done a good job. | know you've been in there watching the videos, and you're in on these calls. And hopefully all are
coming to the meetups, because that's where just a lot of these impromptu conversations, because you're in the
ether and also psycho and you're, you're focused and you go deep. That's why we started doing these because you
know, just just trying to respond to like an SMS or email. It's like better if we can be interactive, and let's capture all
this great content because it’s real world. So anyway, | know some of you have been through this process. So I'm
going to Like Randy and Jan, | know you've done quite a bit. Do you have any thoughts or comments on on that part
of it before we wind this thing down?

1:00:08

| think he covered it really well.

Russ. 1:00:11

Okay, well, | will take that as a compliment. And you're qualified to have an opinion. Stacy, you have any closing
comments? Okay, ladies and gentlemen, well, we're at the top of our hour. So it’s been a good session, thank you all
for your participation. | can't tell you how much | enjoy doing the sessions with you, you keep me sharp, and happy, |
hope | was able to add some value there, keep the questions coming. And, and then look forward to that deal session
that Robert is going to be doing. I'm also going to be doing another one that is going to be about using the news. So
once a month, it's going to be just conversations about whatever's going on in the news in the world, and we can talk
about it together and how, how could we use it in marketing and conversations, even an investment strategy? Okay,
so that that's new, and that'll be coming out here pretty shortly too. Okay, so we'll call that a wrap. Thank you very
much, and we'll see you next time. Thanks, everybody, everybody
JO

you will. And again, | mean, you know, every deal is different. But the more of these things that you can begin to
think about, and document in your, in your diary, which | think everybody should be keeping a diary, | call it the What
the hell was | thinking book, and you write down the decisions you make and why you made them, just like meeting
minutes in a corporation. And then later, you know, you can go back, especially if you find a good way to index it.
You know, if you just have a diary, you know, what kind of main events and then pros underneath it, you know, there's
different ways to do it. But at the end of the day, you can go back and revisit the deep thinking that you were in
which you've long since forgotten, about why you did what you did, who advised you? And then, you know, in the
fullness of time, you can look back and go, yeah, that was good thinking, or that was bad thinking. And that was
good advice. And that was bad advice. Right? | mean, we do that in our heads. But when you're trying to do small
things, you can carry all that crap around in your head. Because, you know, | have short term memory issues, and
attention span. So I've been I've had to just get really good at documenting and, and stuff because |’d forget. So |
think it's a good habit, especially if you want to build something big, and you're going to be trying to have an entire
organization kind of behave and think the way you do. At least until somebody smarter comes along, and they use
happy to own it and have them work for you. Which is okay, too.

Staci Gray 46:50

| take it even a step further. | create videos. And we have like a library of videos of why we do things a certain way.

So the entire team has it. So it’s consistent as you grow.

Russ 47:03

Yeah, | think some of you know that Walter on our team is not a real person, Walter's a character that | made up to
be our email room manager. So when you order special reports, Walter manages the library, Walter responds to all of
the feedback forms and questions and listener questions people like looking for this episode, or want information
about this or that. So Walter is basically a customer service role. In the beginning, it was me, | just didn't want to be
the co host doing that. So | created Walter. But, you know, when when we started having a team of people behaving
in that Walter rolling, we had turnover in that role. To Stacey's point, we recorded a video of me talking for about 30
minutes about the persona of Walter and the, you know, my vision for who Walter was and the way Walter
communicated and what Walters role was. And now | don't ever have to give that talk again, unless something
substantially changes and they come telling me Hey, you need to clean this up a little bit. It's no longer relevant. It
candidly, | forgotten what I've said, because it was just like this. | was just talking off the cuff, but it was good stuff. So
| just hit the record button made a video and now anybody that sits in the water chair, or anybody in our marketing
department, that's going to be the voice of the real estate guys has to watch that video. But they don't have to listen
to me. | don't have to put another minute of my time. So definitely a good good good tip there safe. Thank you.

Okay, what else? Craig? | saw you waving? No. Okay, I'm gonna toss to Felicia, then.

48:33

Craig, this is about that about? So to me, it sounds like you're talking about standard operating procedures. And
rather than writing them down, you're doing videos, which sounds way simpler to me than trying to write all that
down? Or do you do both?

Russ 48:46

Yeah, | mean, you can Yeah, | mean, | don't do the part they do. But you know, | know that they do videos where they
do screenshots and they walk through, click on this and do this, you know, when they're getting to something
tactical. If it's something communicative, or philosophical or vision, then a video is fine. It's just, you know, me
rambling or whoever, | think | think the medium you use really depends on the message. And what is going to make
the message most effective, it's again, worth putting a little extra time in for key stuff, you know, you may want not
want to do a, you know, a highly produced detailed document a diagram video about how to take out the trash,
because it's not a high value task. And if somebody screws it up is not a big consequence. But if it's like, well, how do
| make sure that you know when a check comes in, it gets deposited in the right account? That might be worth

paying attention to? Or how do | make sure that before we hit the send button on the wire that we actually send it to
the right party? Right. So Stacey, you have anything on that?

© Staci Gray 49:48

Yeah, if it's like principle based or philosophical or why and you want the person to gather, catch the spirit of what
you're communicating, we do video if it's tactical. We We'll do a loom video and we will still do step by step via video
But then that will also be converted to a step by step, SOP. So

© Russ 50:07

the taxes are document text.

® Staci Gray 50:10

Yeah, so, so the step by step tactical is in both a video tutorial and a step by step. But you can just shoot it like all |
did, we have 1000s of SOPs, and | didn't create one of them, all | did was hit play, or hit record, did the task and gave
it to them and had them convert it into a step by step. So | knew that they got it, they send it back to me for
approval, | approved it, and it’s been in circulation for years now. And | don't | don't look at it unless there’s another
issue that comes up, and then we revisit it. But most of them are just me doing a recording of how | want it done and
doing a screen share so they can see my video me talking over it. And then that is just all linked in the standard
operating procedure. And we have a template for our standard operating procedures, including a timestamp, like this

task should take you X amount of time. So we all know nobody can, you know, drag out a task or anything because
it's right on there.

© Russ 51:16

Honest time. Yeah. So the VA is documenting the task they do and the time it takes and you have a benchmark for
what that is in terms of output and expense. And so it's a lot of accountability in the systems that Stacy puts

together. And the good news is I've never seen one of them. Yay. All right, Craig, you were wave and you got
something.

© Craig Kamman_ 51:41

Yeah, quick question. I’m kind of going through preparing to get into this. I've got a small portfolio irrevocable trusts,

should | be putting all my properties into those? | just refinanced a bunch into Fannie Mae 30 year note. So some of
them are in my personal name now.
Russ 16:37

and conversations that you have and things you hear from other people who are also you know, if you're if you've got
them engaged with your border collie team, you know, your CPA, your lawyer, your real estate person, your mortgage
person, whoever it is, the more people you have on your team, and you're talking in your leads group or in your, you
know, whatever alliance that you create, as you're learning more about each other's clients, you know, without
stepping outside of professional, you know, ethics, then you're going to be learning about these people, you might
learn about them on their social profile, when you look them up, you might, | mean, some of these people, if you're
dealing with the right kind of people, they could be in the news, you know, | mean, way, way back in the day before
there was the internet, | was very religious about reading the Local Business Journal. | wasn't going to read about
what was going on in my community in which business leaders were making moves and where things were
happening and the New York Times or The Wall Street Journal, right, it wasn’t going to show up there. And even in
the even in the local, you know, major newspaper, | was going to be reading a lot of national news, but the Business
Journal was dedicated to what was going on in business. And so if my avatar is business people | might be, you
know, following the website or news or posts of what's going on with the Chamber of Commerce or the rotary club
or, you know, the local high end golf club or whatever, because I'm just trying to find a pond deficient and learn a
little bit about avatars. And when | noticed somebody you know, and you say, Hey, | saw you You were featured,
congratulations, you know, here's a book | thought you'd enjoy. And they don't even know who you are, but you've
made an impression. So there's lots of ways to kind of do it. But again, it's it's none of that's automated. Right? All of
that is about just being creative about how can | make an impression on this person? and not be Waldo? Okay, so
that was a long answer to to a really great question. Hopefully y’all got some value out of it. Does anybody have any
clarifying questions or comments about that before we move on to a new question or topic? Alex Yeah,

Alex Petkas 18:47

| like this idea. You said What am | closing for? And | think I’ve no idea what you'll probably say that are you know,
that that seems like it could work and all kinds of like semi sales situations. You know, what are some other situations
where that might work? But

Russ 19:08

everything? Yeah, everything every call every conversation, every every task, everything you do. It should be an
incremental step towards some place you're going something you're trying to accomplish. And if you don't know
what's next, if you don’t understand the context of what you're doing, and what's next, then you know, it's that
picture that | have in how to win funds and influence people the blind leading the blind customer, maybe we'll figure
it out if you build enough enthusiasm. You know, the superstrong salmon will find a way to get upstream and breed.
But if you want to kind of you know, have a bigger stock of fish in your pond, you got to make it a little easier for
them to get in your pond. But you have to know you know you are leading people through a process of discovery
They're discovering you. They're discovering their needs, they're discovering your offerings and how your offerings
meet their needs. And that's a lot of discovery. And you're leading them through a process of discovery. and
discovering things is fun. Especially when you're helping them get to know themselves in the context of helping them
achieve goals, maybe that they are latent or not paying attention to, or have been slack or procrastinating on or
confused about what to do next, you grab their hand and lead them there with you. You know, so if I'm in a
conversation at a trade show, the whole time we're having the conversation, I'm I'm closing to get contact
information, either on my lead form, or get their business card, put it in my drawing, whatever. And if | can’t get that,
then my fallback close is to invite them to something and give them that invitation. And hopefully, it’s something of
high value not here's my business card, if you think you're interested, call me that's a low value. And it puts the onus
on them. But if you say, Hey, we're having a webinar about this specific topic, and based on our conversation right

here, and you might make that webinar up in your mind, as you're talking to them, knowing that you could deliver it
get it Alex and the reason | put it off, normally | would handle it first is because | really think that We're going to take
the question up, and you'll get a better answer when Roberts involved. So, Felicia, nice to see you. Do you have
anything you wanted to ask you just hanging out and seeing if you can get a inspiration?

A 25:11

|, | need inspiration just to be around a group of people who are in the same kind of place wandering in the
wilderness trying to figure it out in their r&d.

© Russ 25:20

Okay. All right.

A) 25:22

It's all lonely right now.

© Russ 25:23

Okay, Greg, | know you're you're new and trying to sort things out. So did you come up with a specific question?

© Craig Kamman_ 25:32

figure out the unmute no specific question today, I'm just kind of, I'm trying to clear the deck of my other businesses

to kind of focus on this one. So and that’s a process too. Yeah. So |'m working on systems for that. But I'm trying to
learn just kind of stay in Listen here. So

© Russ 25:51

well, | got to tell you, Scott, Florida, you sent me a copy of Michael hyatts book free to focus. And I'm reading it. So
thank you for that. And we decided to make it our next inner circle book study. So thank you. And for those of you

that haven't read that book, I'm I'm not all the way through it, but | think you'll get a lot of value out of it. So kudos to
Scott for bringing it to my attention. | already knew Michael Hyatt was already a fan, but

&) Scott Florida 26:15

but that looks a lot like some of the stuff he’s talking about in the PSP. You know, | was looking at those concentric
circles, even today. And it just really rhymed with a lot of the stuff that I’m hearing from you. So

© Russ 26:27

yeah, I'm glad Yeah, in fact, | made myself actionless. You know, he’s got the passion, the little matrix, but it’s the

same basic concept. You know. | mean. | kind of made up mv own wav of lookina at it. | don't know. Michael.
whoever they're dealing with. And if they have crappy technique, and they're not very good, then you're a crappy
company, and not very good. That makes sense. Okay, so that's a lot of answer from me. Before | toss it to Stace, or
anybody else that wants to comment cept you have any questions about any of that?

A 12:43

That certainly does help simplify it. As | was getting little confused with all the forums and the questions to ask what
questions to ask in front but it seems like the best scenario is just once getting the email address, keep it simple add
value, add value, add value, and then focus on making them more about giving them what they want, instead of
what | want. Like lucky teach us | just have to remind myself about that and not really think the CRM

© Russ 13:11

well And remember, you don't profile somebody all in one thing, it’s a reveal. And so you know, you may you may do
a webinar about investing in syndications through your 401k, rollover 401k. And in your copy to promote it to your list,
you explain to people what a 401k is who's eligible and some of the benefits of doing that. And then the call to
action is to attend a webinar. Somebody that doesn't have a 401k isn’t going to respond someone who does does
and so maybe you make an assumption so maybe on your 401k and your CRM you either put Yes No, probably or
Probably not. Right and then when you look it up later and you're in a conversation with a person you know, you you
might think oh well | need to kind of clarify that and then either you can be overt if you say hey, | noticed you
ordered this report Do you have a 401k and that's perfectly fine to say because they're going to know that they got
the report from you. If somehow in a conversation or you heard through somebody or you think maybe they might
but you don't know for sure and you don't want to make it seem like you're stalking them you have to try to find a
way to work it into the conversation. | think the thing set that you're going to need to find and everybody needs to
understand this is not an engineering project. It’s art Okay, and number two is it isn’t it isn't an automation it isn’t a
mass marketing project this is this is relationship building think a lot more about you know, dating, think a lot more
about trying to find a partner and if you approach it like that, then it’s it’s extremely personal. It's extremely creative
and unique and yes, there are things you do you know that you you know, as you're if you're if you're dating And | can
I'm going to reveal how inexperienced | am at this part of life. But, you know, if I'm doing that, I'm just thinking to
myself that, you know, I'm not going to try to create a system, but | am going to have some things that | find work
and I'm going to use that technique or that approach or that line, if you will, more often than not, you know, if | don't
know what else to do, you have to start from an assumption, but the better you know your avatar, the more likely you
are to be able to fish with bait that they're going to be interested in. Okay, so Stacy, do you have any thoughts on
that from the work that you've done with folks?

® Staci Gray 15:38

Yeah, | just wanted to say that they are going to give you intel on them by what they click on and what they request
from you. So you're going to if you have multiple CTAs, or you know, different q&a webinars that you do, or free
education webinars that you do, you're going to know a lot about them by what they choose to participate in. And
then if you find that somebody is participating in multiple things, maybe that’s somebody that you want to send a
personal email to. And you can build that into your automation. If somebody requested three or four reports and
attended a webinar, | want to send that person a personal email, then the you can automate that in the system for
the system to send you a notification, hey, this person clicked on this report this report this report and attended this
webinar, you probably want to reach out to them, and then you can move it into your one to one. So you're going to
be profiling them not just by a webform, you're going to be profiling them on their behavior, as they're being nurtured
© Russ 02:04

JO

gotcha, gotcha, gotcha. Okay. So there's going to be two parts to it, there’s going to be kind of the data, capture the
data base design, what it is that you want to know, that you think you can get away with. And so as far as collecting
information from an investor, you know, you don't want to be too intrusive too early. So | think the first thing is when
you're doing doing the flow chart of the client cycle, the life cycle of the client from from the time that they first
discover their need, or their desire, and then go either go in search or, you know, randomly run across your brand or
refer to however they find you, from the point that they have an awareness that they have a need, or they may even
not have an awareness, but at some point, there's going to be an impression made on your brand, they're going to
see you they're going to hear about you somehow someway. And then you go all the way through that, you know, to
kind of what would be you know, maybe first impression to, which could be, you know, what somebody says about
you, or when they Google you online has nothing to do with you communicating anything to them, that isn't already
kind of out there in the ether. So being aware that you have all that together, all the way through, you know,
whatever contact lead capture is mute, mute yourself, if you're not, | think if see everybody's muted, good, safe stays,
you stay on top of that. Anyway, so there's just that whole process, right? So you have to know everything that you're
doing in in making presentations or having connections or making impressions on your prospect to where you
actually get to an engagement, which is a personal conversation, everything you do prior to a personal conversation
should be driving them into a personal conversation. And then everything after a personal conversation you go you
make that switch, as we talked about and how to win funds and influence people from marketing, to sales. Marketing
is about putting things out there and kind of, you know, chumming the water and generically talking about things. It
gets personal. The minute you're having a personal conversation with somebody and how well you marketed, how
well you positioned yourself or set the table is going to dictate how well you're able to open up the heart and uncover
their needs, wants desires, goals and objectives. Use your sales technique to raise your awareness and then their
awareness of those things. And then do your hypothetical. If we could show you a way to have all these wonderful
things you said you wanted for all these wonderful reasons. Is there any reason you wouldn't want me to bring you
that deal or introduce you to that person or whatever that that So it’s all hypothetical person says, No, that'd be
great. Great, then then I'll go to work. And then you come back. And then at that point, you engage the mind and all
that. So that gets kind of into the sale. So on the front end, we're talking about marketing data gathering first
impression. So you have to know where whatever this thing you're doing CEP is, is in that in that lifecycle. Okay. So
then, you're saying now you You're, you're putting something out there, and you're trying to are you trying to get
somebody on your list? Is that what this is lead acquisition,

0533

lead acquisition and how to nurture it from a cold? Someone who | don't know, to get to that conversation? Like,
what, what that sequence would be the questions to ask?

Russ 05:43

Well, | mean, you know, again, I'm gonna go use these analogies that | have very little practical real life experience
with, but everybody understands, | have a little bit of observation. But you know, | mean, if you're out there in a social
gathering, and you see somebody that's attractive to you, you know, you want to have enough of a conversation to
get a phone number and permission to follow up, you try to go too far too fast, and you get shut down. So you're
going to put whatever lead magnet, whatever information you need out there to get somebody who is interested to
go from being anonymous to where they're on your list, the more you try to add more hoops, the more information
the more formfields, the more intrusive you get, the more it feels like they're being profiled or questioned or
database, the less likely they're going to engage my opinion. Right. So it's, that's you watch us do this all the time,
you know, our value on the show close with a free report with an email call to action, super simple. That doesn't
always work in social media. So depending on where it is, but I'm saying offer them something of value in the context
JO

JO

the answer you want. So that would be my answer. And those of you that, you know, have done a fair number of
deals. You know, Randy and Jana, and again, | don't know that much about the rest of you, Sep | know you've done a
few deals you have anything you want to add to that for Alex's sake, before we move on to Scott's question.

34:20

| was gonna say something not about the deal. But the question, it really is important to ask the question first, and
then let the person you're asking the question of Phil asked the questions they need. We were getting lost in your
story as to where we were going with that. So just that's really, really important. Really appreciate that. Yeah. Greg,

Craig Kamman 34:42

yeah. Alex, | have a question the operator so you're buying these these houses from someone who's managing it
right now? Are they going to stay in the deal after you close?

Alex Petkas 34:54

The person that the operator is going to stay the deal the person I'm buying it from is not okay, so

Russ 34:59

let's Leave that part of the conversation for the conversation with Robert, because that is a perfect type of question.
And if you guys aren't, you should participate in the community masterminds. So this is a great question to get a
group of people on a community call and mastermind on it. But if you, if you bring this to the estimators with Robert,
you're going to get, you know, it’s like, it’s like our inner circle, What's your deal calls and right now we're small, and
sO you guys are gonna get some of that kind of love when we're bigger. These things won't be quite as interactive. So
we're enjoying this while we have it. Our circle or inner circle, you remember those, those calls? So did anybody else
wave a hand specific to to not ask him a clarifying question, but giving him a tip or a piece of advice? Based on your

experience? or telling me that, you know, my advice was bogus, that's okay, too. | won't be insulted.

SomZ

No, | think you're spot on their restaurant, I'm assuming it’s must must be an assisted living player something when
you're talking about operator and of course, that is pretty easy to just design the contingency and lock them in, |
mean, make them sign a contract that they're going to be in the deal for, if you like them, if they're operating? Well,
that's the other side of it. | mean, the thing is to be doing due diligence on other operators. But if so long, you put
that you know, you're going to stay in this position for x period of time, then, you know, you've got that assurance
that you've locked them in on a contract.

Russ 36:28

Yeah, and you know, it could be something you have a conversation, if you're positioned, you know, where the
offering the listing agent, or whoever you're involved with the person on the other side that you're negotiating with,
knows you're serious and believes in you, you can say, Hey, you know, before | take the time, we take the time to put
this in writing, and we just ask your question, you know, hypothetically speaking, you know, if | were to move forward
with this deal, what's the level of interest in the person staying or whatever? And that’s common, very common, you
know, when you're selling an ongoing concern, a lot of times people want to know, is there going to be continuity in
management? You know, is there going to be a period of handoff? Very, very common. But again, let's take that up.
So keep that question. And then and bring it in watch for that, when that comes up with Robert, because he'll have a

lot to say on it. It'll be very, very good. Okay, good. So Scott, let's move on to you.

® Scott Florida 37:20

| have a few and they might be quick answers. But one of them is, can you use silver? How do you use silver like, you
know, actual coins as like reserve or, you know, a part of the deal to say, you know, I've got these resources available?

© Russ 37:44

In other words, your first of all, this is probably not an operations question, more of like a mastermind question. So
I'm gonna hit it really, really quick. If | understand the question correctly, you're asking it, maybe we ought to just
have a free for all session, because there's things that just don't fit neatly in our buckets. But | think | think those who
just send those questions to ask the mentors, and then we just kind of record one offs. But anyway, so if you're talking
about what shows up on your balance sheet? Is that what you're talking about? How do you how do you show assets
on your balance sheet that aren't in institutions? Well, | think you just list them. And if, if, if that's not good enough for
whoever you're showing them to, then you can put them in the possession of a custodian and have that custodian
give you an official statement that they can look at. And that's a possibility, if that’s not good enough, you know,
again, you know, having been in the lending business, it really just depends on on what the party you're showing your
financials to, is really looking for, how strict is the underwriting? What are they really looking for, you only want to
show them as much as they need to see and you want to show it to them in a way they want to see it. | do suppose
from a operational perspective, if | can kind of put this in an operational context. When you pull the trigger on a
deal, and you know that your mo is to use leverage, then part of your regular process should be to constantly be in
communication with your lenders, and just getting updated on whatever lending programs are available. Any
updates on your personal financial situation, and you know, where you can ask these kind of questions. And your
goal is to pledge your business to them in exchange for their mentorship of you in making sure that you are always
as prepared as you can possibly be so that when a hot deal comes across your desk, you're not scrambling around
trying to solve 1000 questions. You're only scrambling around trying to solve 20 that are unique to the deal or
whatever. Right? And then and then the other thing is, is when you do get a deal, if you're stocking a deal, and you
know it's going to fit into a certain box, it’s it’s, it's I'm going to need a commercial lender, it’s going to be an SBA, I’m
going to, | need a residential, whatever it is, then your procedure, your checklist should be as soon as you recognize
that this is a deal that you're going to work on, then you turn to | hope your team, whoever's running your books, and
say, start working on updating a credit package for this kind of deal. Contact my finance person, and find out what
they need. Now you obviously don't want to waste your labor or your team’s time if you're not serious. But if you, you
know, have a feeling this deals gonna happen, and you're serious about it or one like it, then yeah, you probably want
to do that. So there are three, again, everything's a process, you think through when you're doing something, every
time you're doing anything, in your business, you're figuring that out for the very first time, for just a little bit extra
effort. You can create documentation, you can keep a journal of the experience, you can write down what you
learned what you did write what you hope you remember next time what you did wrong, what you would do, if you
had to do it over again. And so next time you do it better, that little extra bit of time is a good investment. Okay. All
right. Good questions. Who else has a question? We're not obligated to use the time, but you have me and Stacy, for
the time.

aa» - on mi . ot aA Ar
October 2020 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Live Call on
Business Ope...

@ Fri,10/8 6:08PM @ 1:01:17

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, deal, people, business, person, conversation, talking, stacy, put, read, walter, create, learning, fractal, big, step, good,

robert, alex, crm

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Craig Kamman, Alex Petkas, Staci Gray

) Russ 00:17

All right, hey syndication veteran club. It’s Russ. We are here for another edition of Ask the mentors and today we're
doing business operations and riding shotgun is the operations goddess, Stacey gray. Hey, Stace. He they're big Hello
to everybody. All right. So we have one pre submitted question from Alex. And so thank you for sending that, Alex.
However, it it's really kind of more of a deal. Question. So I'll go ahead and read it and, and try to deal with it a little
bit. But | want everybody to know that Robert is going to be hosting a once a month, asked the mentors, that has to
do with really kind of deals, controlling deals, shepherding investors and counterparties. Through deals, he’s really
the guy who has the most experience and the most to offer there. I'll probably ride shotgun on those too, because |
think some of that is just good sales technique. And that's my area of expertise. But Robert is really the guy who
should be handling that. So before | jump into that, though, Alex, does anybody have anything that they came to the
party with? The question that they wanted to get out that really specifically operation set

01:34

is maybe half operations, half sales and marketing? It's regarding onboarding new investors through a CRM and a

JO

website? So it doesn't actually leave for next call? Or?

© Russ 01:45

Nope, that | think it's great. So you're asking us how to do it? Is that the question?

01:51

Yeah, like what the flow is the base of the series of emails, the questions to ask the investors that that sign up, how to

JO

get them on the phone, this kind of sales? process questions,
Russ 51:59

Okay. So again, this is a great ask the mentors question. And sometimes | can impose upon Kevin de or maybe
Mauricio, even though he doesn't do this in his practice anymore? Because it’s a legal question. And so what I'm
gonna do is I'm not going to answer the question, because | don't feel like I'm qualified, it really doesn't fit in what
we're doing, I'm going to try and flip it into kind of a process. So like we talked about with Alex, when you first
identify what the question is, and you asked a good question. The next thing you have to ask yourself is who's best
qualified to answer the question, Who do | need to ask the question of, and when it comes to matters of how you're
going to hold an asset, it is a multi faceted question. So it is so the start is before you even start. Like if you're setting
up books, one of the first thing your accountant is going to ask you is for a chart of accounts, they want to know
what buckets to put whatever you're doing. So the first thing you want to do is set up your entity overall entity plan,
not just like, Oh, | need a living trust. And then you know, if you're familiar with the Winchester Mystery house, it just
becomes this cluster of things that don't really fit together, | know because I've done it. But instead, you spend some
time really creating a blueprint, of course, we give you the basis of a very simple blueprint. At in the secrets of
successful syndication, you can see the holding company, the management company, the the project LLCs. And so
the the consultation you would have is first with a an asset protection estate type planning attorney, who would kind
of create your overall entity blueprint and doesn’t mean you have to build the whole thing. You can, you can build it
as needed. But you want to have the blueprint built, now you know where your personal stuff goes. Because the first
thing you want to do is isolate your personal stuff from the new liabilities you're going to create. And then the next
thing is to set your business up so that you know exactly how you're going to operate your business. What's going to
be visible to your clients? Where is your getting hold your equity? Who's going to make the decision? And then where
is the project going to be held, and those are typically going to be three different things. And so then you kind of get
that set up and then you know you do the insurance overlay on top of all that which again, is in the secrets of
successful syndication. But But when you're talking about these types of structures, you're going to have, you're
gonna have an asset protection attorney. You may have an estate planning attorney, you are going to need to have
a CPA involved at a minimum. Okay, okay. And then it’s always good not for you to be in that meeting alone, but
you'd have a bookkeeper or an accounting manager, whoever it is is going to handle this with you. Even if it’s just
Like a spouse or a business partner, just somebody else, because a lot of it’s going to go over your head, always ask
permission to record, if you can take lots of pictures, really try to document what you're doing. And afterwards block
off a chunk of time to debrief while it's fresh in your head. Don't think you'll remember because you won't, you'll lose
a lot of it. So right then and there do that. So that's a process, that's a procedure. And then when you're designing
these plans, the considerations are asset protection, privacy, tax, and man management in other words,
administration, right. And there are always going to be compromises, there's no perfect system. You know, if you
value privacy, as | do more than anything, you might have to pay a little more tax to get it. Or you might have a
more complicated structure to administrate, because you want more layers than the normal person would want. But
you know, you don't have as many people snooping in your business as somebody that's maybe more public or
whatever. Or you may just be a privacy freak. Right? But But again, those are the categories. And so when you begin
to ask a question, next thing you do is you start looking at your current situation, and you start playing What if to try
to this is your SWOT analysis, my weaknesses, my threats? What if | back over the neighbor's kid? What if my
employee sexually harasses a tenant? What if the guy on the job site saws off his hand and you start going through
all these what ifs all this horrible stuff that could happen? And you look at just like what would happen if this
happened? You can look at some of these things or what have an asteroid hit the Earth, okay, well, don’t don't waste
time and money, you know, trying to solve for things that the probabilities are really low, try to deal with things that
are like real life. It's one of the reasons like with a Halloween horror stories, you hear about stuff that went bad, that's
useful, because it's like, okay, these are the things | need to mitigate. Right? And so you start asking that, and then
one of the great things to do is when you start out, | mean, one of the great questions to ask in, like, at the meetup,
when you get in conversations with people, rather than just shoot the crap, you know, ask somebody like, hey, what,
you know, what, what, what's the, you know, what is something that really went wrong, that knowing what you know,
now you would have done differently, or you can get even more in the weeds. And then certainly, you can ask your
professional advisors, because if these people are active, dealing with other customers who are just like you and all
of your providers should be right, I'm not going to go see a CPA that doesn't handle syndicators as part of their
practice. | don’t want them learning on my dime or making mistakes on my my account, | want somebody does that
by the time you have to. You've done that many, | mean, | can't say how many seminars Robert and | did where we
just created the flyer, and told everybody, we were going to do it. And then once we sold some tickets, and we figured
out what we were going to say,

6) Staci Gray 21:31

you didn't even create the flyer, you would just get on stage and make it up and that's in the back of the room and

be like, Oh, | guess we're doing a new seminar. Yeah.

© Russ 21:39

Now we don't, you know, we decided the demographic we got very clear about who we are what we wanted to do.
And you know, the time is a zero sum game. And so we've kind of been in our little rhythm, very focused on, you
know, Main Street, investing in Main Street, and 1000 of you, or 10,000 of you out there raising 10 million a year and
pulling $100 billion a year out of Wall Street, you know, that's a mission. That's a big, hairy audacious goal is gonna
take some time, but whatever it is, the point is, is it goes back to the video that Stacy and | did where we talked
about everything is a process. Everything is a process. And if you don't know your processes, who does? And if you
don't know what I'm talking about, go watch the movie. Is it | can't remember with Ray Kroc the founder. | think
that's what it's called. Right? And the one brother, the one McDonald, brother, that was anal retentive, about flow,
charting, and creating a process for everything, counting how many steps in the most optimal place to put the
counter to save, you know, one 1/10 of a second, but times 1000 transactions a day brought his labor costs down.
And it was that kind of attention to detail that Ray Kroc saw and realized, wow, this is a system. And once | have a
system, | can cookie cutter that thing, and | can replicate and scale. That's what Stacy's whole business model is
organized to scale is the idea that you take your business and you organize it to the nth degree. And now it's built to
scale. You all are an r&d when you're wandering around, you know, like you are right now, feeling lost and confused.
Don't be lost and confused. You're doing r&d, you're learning about your market, you're learning about your avatar,
you're learning about process, you're learning about what needs to be done, what works, what doesn't work, what
you like, what you don't like, what kind of deals what kind of markets, what kind of people, you know, you're just
learning, learning, learning, learning, learning, and if you approach it with a lot of curiosity and not fear of failure,
then then it's the same thing. | got that thing earlier. It's all it’s all a journey of discovery, and it's fun. It's fun. Anyway,

so | kind of digressed a little bit but Did that answer your question? Yeah, super.

© Alex Petkas 23:54

Thank you. Yeah, |

© Russ 23:55

see it in sales all the time. You know, it's fractal it's it’s all happening inside itself, right? | mean, it's like it’s like the
world you know, there's life and death and that's fractal you know, and it just renews and it goes and there's all kinds
of processes and things going on and they happen inside each other you know, we've got planets orbiting, you know,
stars we have stars orbiting galaxies, we have galaxies orbiting the universe and it would go down and we have
electrons you know, orbiting nucleus and it's fractal. The world is fractal and once you understand that concept, then
you just have to master a few basic patterns and principles, and then you just apply them to everything you do, and
it makes life so much simpler. My opinion. Okay, So enough about that. So Alex, | do want to come back to you and
your other question. Assuming we have time but | rush | want to make sure that we have a chance to take on
anything else anybody brought to the party and the best way to make sure you get the love and | will make sure you
Ww Scott FIO“Idd 41:55

I've got another one. related to mortgages. As far as like, one of the things that | was looking at was a Sep actually
helped me get connected with this but a 10 year fixed with a 30 year amortization.

© Russ 41:51

Yep. And sometimes you had an interest only option on those which are super cool.

©) Scott Florida 41:56

Okay. I've heard you talk a number of times about go for a 30 year fixed. As far as they approach Well, that's it with
the 10 year fixed. Versus in the 30 year amortization is, is in our current environment, is that still a wise move?

& Russ 42:16

Well, | mean, I'm a fan of locking in the lowest rate you can for the longest amount of time

©) Scott Florida 42:22

is non recourse, by the way. Yeah. So

© Russ 42:25

that, but | mean, it depends on its situation, if I'm, if I'm buying something that | plan to flip, and | think it’s going to
take me three years or five years to do what | need to do. And then I'm giving myself an additional five years on the
back end to get out with predictable cash flows. And I'm comfortable with that risk, and | get enough reward the
delta between the longest term fix and that and | say, okay, that for that amount of lower interest, or improved
profitability, I'm willing to give up the security of the longer term rate, that's a business decision, | can't tell you what
to what to do. If If, if | felt like this is a property that | wanted the portfolio for a long, long period of time, unless
something, you know, materially changes in the marketplace, then in today’s environment, | would go as long as you
possibly can. And even more, so if it’s a type of loan, that would be assumable. If it's a commercial type loan, that
has that assumability factor, or, you know, even in today's environment, there's always the possibility of locking in
with residential properties, a 30 year, fix that super cheap. And if interest rates were to go up down the road, you
could sell the property on a rap and offer a competitive rate to a borrower and end up with a positive spread. So, you
know, to me, when when money is this cheap, and you have the ability to lock it in long term, unless that delta
between the adjustable and the long term is substantial. I'd rather have the extra insurance, but that's me. That's me.
Because if interest rates all sudden, for whatever reason, if the Fed lost complete control and the world reset, and we
ended up with the Volcker moment where all sudden you've got a Fed chair, pumping stuff up to 15%, and you're
trying to live in that environment, the values are going to crash, you're not going to be able to move the property
buyers aren't going to be able to come in, you're going to be victimized by that. You might as well okay. It's non
recourse, | don't care, I'll hand them the keys, I'll lose the equity and whatever. It's a business decision. But
operationally, | think, again, coming in with a process is is when you're evaluating your finances, and you're making
those fn decisions. One of the things in creating kind of that risk adjusted, the procedure would be to evaluate my
financing options, longest term fixed, adjustable options, and how do | calculate that The the the delta and make a
determination. Is there a range or a formula? That | would use to say yes, in this case, | would go short term in this

case, | would go long term. Right? | mean, it’s, it's, it's kind of like you're designing your own artificial intelligence, if
JO

~

Personally, | think Stacy does, but |, he seems like a guy would get along with. Yeah, seems like my kind of guy. Okay.
All right. What about you? hubbs. Mr. Mrs. Hobbs, you have any specific questions you want to address while we're on
this?

26:56

resist, I'm just trying to be a fly on the wall and learn any chance | get. But of course, | started reading that book
today. It just came in yesterday and got through a good chunk of it. And it's really I'm excited because it really
applies to a lot of what we're we're working on right now. And that's getting stuff. Other stuff that’s less important. |
mean, it ties in with goals, too, which is really cool as we're coming into that and getting ready for that. But we just
have so many things that are on our plate that sometimes pull us off off of focus. And so the nice part about it is
we've been talking about it a lot and we're getting more stuff off and all of a sudden it's getting us on the right

things. And now we're starting to see that momentum shift which has been great.

Russ 27:38

Yeah, good. Well, you know, I'm a big fan of time blocking is anybody that's been around me knows or anybody that
looks at my calendar looks at the way | run my life. And one of the time blocks you have to have is planning. And
when you sit down to do your in planning, | mean, Michael Gerber divides your your mental focus into two categories.
If you haven't read a myth by Michael Gerber, even though it's an oldie. It's a goodie. He talks about the two
mindsets, the strategist working on your business, and the technician who's working in your business. And you have
to do both. Because if you don't work in your business work doesn't get done. But if you don’t plan your work or think
strategically, then you can walk around in a circle and be very busy and go nowhere. And you know, a lot of times
people who have been workers in somebody else’s machine most of their life, they have very little experience being
strategic thinking about, you know, goals, number one, and then scope and sequence. How do | get from point A to
point B, and that strategy? And that's what | do, you know, | say, Okay, | get clear on what | want to do. And | always
say, when you have clarity, vision, strategy and tactics become evident. And they do because you look at Okay,
that's where | want to go and very fixated on where | want to go, here’s where | am, here's what | have to work with.
How can | take what | have to take an incremental step towards going where | want to go? And if | get to a place
along the journey where | realize, Oh, | need something that | don't have, then the problem to solve for my planning
session is how can | acquire that thing that | don't have? What do | need? You know, | need a better brand. When |
decided to transition from office products into the mortgage business, | needed to build a brand | needed to build
credibility, | needed to be somebody | didn't you know, | was 40 years old. And | didn't need to look like | was a 40
year old just starting, | had the advantage of looking like I'd been in business for 20 years, | had some skills, but |
knew zero about the mortgage business. So | aligned with the guy that had 25 years experience. Who could help
make sure that if | got in over my head, | had a mentor. It's kind of the concept that we have here. You have people
who have experienced you can come to and then | went out and | looked for somebody that already had a brand in
the real estate space that | could attach to and that's how | found Robert Helms. But it all came from a strategy
session. How can | take what | have What did | have | had great sales skills. | had good organized additional skills. |
knew how to look and walk the part of being a fairly successful business person at the age of 40. And | didn't want to
be a BS or | didn't want to pretend to be competent. | wanted to make sure that | was backstopped by competent
people. And then | didn't run around saying nice things about myself. | let Robert do that. And it worked out great.
Alright, so Alex, then let's jump into your question. It is a big gigantic long question. So rather than have me attempt
to read it, do you think you can get it out in in a pretty concise fashion? And we'll take a shot at it?

Alex Petkas 30:40

Yeah, let me see. So I'm, I'm dealing with a deal for single family homes in Central Texas. And we're, I've realized that
of how they found you and see you and get them on your list, then you're going to have a nurturing program that is
going to be designed to feed them more of what they came for. So in other words they came in, you have to know
why did the person come to me? Why Why? Why did they fill out the form, you have to kind of assume based on your
knowledge of your avatar, why did this person engage, and then you need to meet them and give them what they
want, what they came for, you're eventually going to take them where you want to go, but you got to, you know,
you're standing on this rainbow bridge, and you're over here, and they're over here, you you can't, you know, pull
them to you against their will, you know, you've got to get them to move closer to you, and you can move closer to
them. But you've got to, you've got to hold their hand in their area of interest, and then walk them down the path
until you can introduce them to something or someone or a concept or an idea, or whatever. And so what what what
those pieces are, is really going to depend on the path they're on and you're gonna have a lot of different paths, you
know, if you look at the tree, on the client acquisition branch, you get the main branch, which is client acquisition, but
you got all kinds of sub branches coming off there, spring came in off the website, this person came from a referral,
this person, you know, came from a trade show this person, you know, was forwarded my newsletter, blah, blah, blah,
right. And so whatever it is that they, you think that they would be most interested in for second contact, like if you
had, if you were successful in getting the phone number, what would be the next thing is just try to get them to, you
know, maybe send them a thank you notes and flowers, you know, so at some point, you're trying to get into a date
where you're going to have a conversation. So you just got to wait however you're nurtured, the quicker you try to get
to sales, the quicker you try to profile, the quicker you try to get the personal information, the quicker you're going to
get shut down. But if you if you offer kind of the main offering is, whatever it is, you're feeding them to build your
brand and you're building trust in two ways. And I'm going to stop monologuing and I'm going to test the crowd,
right? When you're building trust, there's two things you got to build trust and what are they? Anybody at all?
competence, confidence, good, man. What else? character, character, ethics and capability, whatever you want to
call it, they have to know that you're a good person and you know what you're doing. Everything you are doing is
painting pictures. I'm a good person, | know what I’m doing without overselling it without overplaying your hand,
without, you know, being bragging or egotistical or making it sound like sales pitch, right? So you're subtle about it,
you're giving they're trying to figure you out, you're trying to keep them interested, and they're trying to figure you
out, and you're giving them enough that they can connect the dots and see what you need them to see without you
connecting the dots for them where their brain is engaged. Okay, so once once you have them and you got them on
that, then then then maybe the main course, the main thing you offer them is free report and at the PS, you know, for
personal consultation, you know, take this action. So it’s a lot of what they want and the bottom, it’s a little bit of
what you want the low hanging fruit, they'll grab it, other people might go through two or three or four, and then
they'll grab it because they need a little bit more, it’s like when you write an email, you know, you're going to have the
add people are gonna read the subject line decide to open it, they open it and read one line, they make a decision,
they need a call to action right there. So they know what to do, they're not going to read all the rest of it. The person
who new reads to the second paragraph is a different person that already left you at the first paragraph, either
because they weren't interested or they were so hard to go, they clicked. Either way, they're gone, the person who
read to the second paragraph needs a little bit more information when you said the first got them to the second,
right, that progression of developing interest happens in a campaign, it happens in an email that happens in a
conversation, it doesn’t matter how you do it, it's fractal, and it’s always the same. So you just work them through
that. Now the mechanics of that, you know, you can program that in your CRM, but don't when you're developing a
an investor development flowchart, it’s not all going to get programmed into a CRM, the CRM is only part of it.
Because if somebody refers you and gives a business card, you know, and then the person calls you, then that puts
them on a different path. You know, if that phone rings, what am | closing for? I'm closing for permission to get them
on my list, maybe or I'm closing for, you know, maybe | go directly into sales, it just depends, you know, maybe along
the way in your automated campaign in your CRM, the call to action is to call you. And if they call you that, that's in
your cycle, it’s not in your CRM. But it’s in your it’s in your cycle. It's in your process. And you may think, Well, | do all
this instinctively. Well, that’s fine. But if you're thinking big, as you should be right step, always think big. Right? If
you're gonna think big, then you might have five investor relationship, people all working your investors, are they all
doing it right? Are they all doing it the same? Or are they just all gunslingers out there doing whatever they want?
Right? | mean, some of it, you have to let people be creative, and they'll develop new ways. But same time, you want

to make sure you have somewhat of a consistent experience. Otherwise, your company is to that individual investor,
