 

Ken Hosac 30:27

| just want to say | really appreciate that last riff. | don’t consider my syndicator syndication or syndicator, | consider
myself a real estate developer, who's looking at using syndication to raise money for my developer development. So |
was really glad you make that distinction is, you know, because I'm not a full time syndicator. I'm not going to go get
a job raising money for other syndicates, | have my primary job. And |'m really intrigued with doing this on my next
project, you know, syndication, raise money, but after going through a few of these sessions, I've decided I'm going to
do it on my smaller initial project, because it seems like there's a lot of benefits if you have a couple partners, and
you want to have limited partners and kind of keep them out of your day to day operational business, and that still

have a way to make some good money.

Russ 31:14

Yeah, and the other thing is, if you're a great operator, if you're somebody that is actually producing profits at the
street level, that’s what the capital wants. And so you know, people in the club may be interested in, in backing you,
some people are gonna have more money than deals, right, you're always looking for a pony to ride, right? | mean,
my dad was a businessman, he wasn't a venture capitalist. And the way Silicon Valley worked is, when a businessman
came along and could build a profitable company, the VCs were just, you know, | mean, back, then you, you would
go, he used to take me to these networking meetings, because that's, you know, there was no internet, you know, you
didn't find anybody that way, you had to go network. And we'd go to these meetings, and all all the VCs and the
capital would be in the room, and then all these wannabe entrepreneurs would come in with their ideas and their
business plans. And they'd get up one by one, it was like speed dating, and they'd give their give their, you know, five
minute pitch. And if they made a big enough impact, then the VCs would follow up. And, you know, my dad found
out that the poor entrepreneurs working 60 7080 hours a week, owns a small percentage of the company, because
you know, the capital really runs everything. And this is why a lot of those guys, they don't go, they're not serial
entrepreneurs, they hit it once big, and then they become the capital side, because they know the guy that, you
know, they're just looking for ponies to to bet on, right? The reason, you know, | started out trying to to raise venture
capital, because that was, you know, it’s way my dad raised money, the only way | knew to raise money, and then |
realized, the way those guys roll and the price you pay and how little you get for what you build. You know, | said,
Well, I'm going to try a different way. And | went down the syndication path, because you have limited partners, and
you get a bigger slice of the pie, and they don't really own you, you know, they're betting on you. But it's very, very
different. So | like doing it this way, far, far better. And of course, it lends itself more to real estate, because anything
that doesn't have a big IPO on the back end event, VCs aren't interested in, they're interested in that mega multiplier
that comes when they can, they can tap into all the air. You know, for those of you that were at the New Orleans
investment conference, and we talked about how unrealized capital gains aren't really real. Except now they're going
to be taxed anyway. That's what they're talking about. But it's all air. So air on somebody's balance sheet, but you
can tap into that, and then sell and converted into things that are real, when people get serious about converting
their wealth into something real, they're looking for us, they're looking for Main Street. And even if it’s on the debt,
side, mortgage backed securities, you know, commercial mortgage backed securities, they want to be linked to real
assets backed by real productivity. And when they can't find it in the business world, they come looking for it in the
real estate world. And right now, they can't find it in the business world evaluations are just out of control. So we
have a big opportunity in the space right now. Because capital is looking for what we know how to do and if you
know how to go out there the street can and develop a project and create profit. Let everybody know in the club,
and you may get some takers. You know, you may not need to start a full blown syndication business of your own you
can just be a great operator and then align with syndicators, although you're gonna be dependent upon them. So it

might not be bad to have your own. But just remember it. It's a separate business.

Ken Hosac 34:34
Yeah, and | came 20 years out of the tech VC world, so I'm very familiar with that space. Oh, yeah. Okay. When your
obviously his business took off when he got Kiyosaki because he got 10s of millions of dollars from Kiyosaki probably
more, | don't know, but a lot. So and the thing is, if you have in your financial model, as | talked about earlier, a way
that when money comes in the door you have cash flow that's usable, which is why I'm such a huge proponent of
having a promote a lot of people don't believe in it, Kenny doesn't believe in it. But | do because not everybody has a
strong other income like his property management business to carry a syndication business. Robert didn't Robert
didn't you know, Robert, Robert, they were running out of money because they were they were all equity all the time,
guys. They were all betting on the back end, there was nothing up front for cash flow. And there's no way to sell
yourself out of a bad model. The more you sell the broker you go, you can't be like, oh, yeah, we lose money on every
sale, but we make it up in the volume. It’s a cute joke, but in the real world, it's like it’s horrible. And that's the that’s
the problem with a bad model. So does that make sense Adam?

Adam 49:24

Yeah, it does. | think it helps give me an idea. One of my biggest things is probably going to the funding side of it so
this as everything starts to grow together just to kind of be aware of when when to add and just keep it kind of front
in my mind.

Russ 49:36

Yeah, cash flow. It's It's knowing Okay, the money is gonna go out and this is my path back you know, when we were
struggling after 2008 And | found that one of the ways | could make money | had to make every | had to make every
trade show we attended profitable. So | had to go okay, what can | sell at this trade show? And | could sell
sponsorships to the real mistake, guys. And so if | could go in and the most valuable thing, to me, wasn't the
attendees and getting them to come on our summit or whatever, | would work the trade show floor and find
sponsors. And then they would come in and sponsor the show. And | knew that if | followed up and was diligent, that
a few weeks after the show, | would have all my money back and then some. And so it was a negative cash flow
business. | mean, it was not negative cash flow. But it was a it was a | had to put the money out before | get the
money back type of business. One of the reasons and there's a lot of reasons, and this isn't the main reason by any
stretch, but one of the reasons we continue to maintain a robust seminar business is because it is extremely great
cash flow, what happens is | get to collect all the money for months in advance of actually having to deliver the
product or service versus having to put money out and having to wait till | get the ROI. So it balances our business
out. And then I'm also trying to create balance in the business by inserting recurring revenue, Stacy knows one of the
mantras one of the things we're focused on is to develop our recurring revenue to where it exceeds our recurring
expenses, that puts stability in the business especially, it's one thing to have 20 Inner Circle members at $25,000 a
year. Or if | could have 1000 syndication, mentoring club members at $5,000 a year. Right. | mean, you know, so you
want to have that diversification, the same thing is true. As you're building your business, you know, you don't just
want to go do a bunch of equity deals and go from cash to asset to cash, because you don't build any stability. In my
opinion, | think you want to try to have either you have enough of those deals in the pipeline that you're constantly
getting infusions of liquidity, these deals opens and deal close. And it's just like laddering, CDs, or any type of bond
investment where you have an obligation to hold for a while, you know, you buy you buy a one month CD and month
one, and then you buy a one month CD and month two and another one a month three, that way you have 1/12 of
your your your your asset base, coming liquid every single 30 days. And so you build cash flow into that type of a
portfolio. But if you're if you're if you're building up management fees, you know, collecting a management fee for
assets under management, even if it's one or 2%. If you're collecting percentages of cash flows on cash flowing
investments, like rental properties, apartments, mobile home parks, whatever it is, or notes, if you're arbitraging,
where you're collecting capital from investors at say six or 7%. And then putting them in something like an aspen
funds where you're going to get 9%, and you can get liquid, you can begin to build cash flow into your model into
your business. And yet at the same time, you can structure it, this was a conversation we had during the inner circle
mastermind, where when, when you do find a deal you need to do if you're if your income fund is structured in such a
way that you can make a loan to yourself or to the other to the other project, the investors have to be okay with that.
But now you can go fund that New Deal. And you've got enough room because you can still deliver the investors their
return, I'll give you simple math. So you understand I'm saying if you got $300,000 in the thing, pay and 9% from
aspect, and you you owe your investors a 6%, then that means you're making a positive 3% While the money is
sitting there, which is nice. But if you find a deal that you want to do, and you need to pull $100,000 out to go do the
deal. And it's it's not going to provide immediate cash flow, you still have enough, you still have 6% to pay your
investors and what you've given up is your 3% because you want to go do this deal. That makes sense. Okay, so
again, that goes back to this notion of having a portfolio strategy in in your syndication business, understanding the
difference between capital gains and cash flow, understanding that you're going to have fixed overhead, it’s going to
require consistent cash flow, your life will be a lot easier if you build that consistent cash flow into your model and
have a plan for it. Obviously, you want to maintain good cash reserves. And, you know, there's other portfolio theory
and you want to have your business coming in from diverse markets, diverse investors, diverse investments as much
as you can. And then just going back to, you know, when you're first starting out, you're gonna have to probably put
some seed capital in. If you don’t have a lot of seed capital or you don't have enough then you find a third party
person who's got a deal that’s ripe and ready to go and you go fund that and put a promote in and now you
generate capital from doing the fundraise on the promote, and you use that money to fund you know, your setup or
your operations or whatever. So you have to be creative. Like okay, | gotta feed this baby | got to go forage in the
marketplace and come back with a meal, | got to figure it out. If it's the trade show floor, or, or I'm going to go place
a referral with an affiliate, or I'm going to create a seminar, | have to go find a way to generate income to, to feed
everybody, you have to do the same thing. So one of the most important things that any entrepreneur must always
know his you always must know the shortest path the cache, you have to be very aware of what the shortest path
the cache is. And if you don't have one, that's an emergency. Because if you can't wake up today and sell something
and make money, take a breath, you're in trouble. You're swimming underwater, you think, Okay, I'm gonna hold my
breath until | can get to that next little break in the ice where | can breathe again. But if the tide swims against you,
or something, | mean, all sudden, you're trapped, right? So always make sure that you know, the short path, the cash,
if you start thinking of it in terms of the urgency you would have in those situations and the metaphor of breathing.
I've one of my business mentors taught me that cash is oxygen. And when | understood that | realized | had to inhale
and exhale, inhale and exhale. If | wanted to be healthy, | couldn't just inhale. That’s what savers do. hoarders do
scarcity mentality, people | had to breathe in, | had to breathe out, breathe in and breathe out. But But that process
had to generate positive nutrition for my organization, my organism where | was going to die, | couldn't breathe in
and breathe out negative | had to breathe and breathe out positive. Okay. Anything else? We got? Like one more
minute? Back clean up on anything. Any final closing thoughts or words from anybody?

oO Adam _ 56:33

Thank you for that what you just said. And also the portfolio strategy stuff would be another interesting topics.

© Russ 56:40

Oh, yeah, no, I'll be here for quite a while. So | have all kinds of that kind of stuff. It's the advantage of being an old

man and having been around for a long time. Anybody else?

© Kevin 56:52

I'd like to hear some more about the software Staci and | were talking about not today. Obviously, there's not
diamond, if we can figure that out sometime the software that you and | were talking about the AppFolio on the
back end has a CRM associated with it?
operations officer. You know, and whether you do it virtually like when Eric Shelley hired a virtual CFO, you can hire a
virtual CEO, which is basically what OTS is, you don't have to use OTs, right but | You know, they're here. And so just
understand that she couldn't say that. But I'm saying it. And I'm not saying it because she's my daughter. I’m not
trying to pitch it, | can just | can just look around at the people who have engaged OTs and what's happened to their
business versus not No, Brad, | know you have. So this isn’t really for your benefit. This is for everybody's benefit. And
of course, you know, Stacy's still trying to organize her business to scale because everybody wants to hire OTS. But
really, that's the thing. So before we move on, in terms of that, we talked about the importance of engaging the
marketplace ready or not. And we talked about the importance of the flip side is getting somebody operational on
board to handle organizing your business. So you can keep your focus on staying engaged in marketing, because you
will pay for all the back shop if you stay focused on the front end. Right? | say that's the bottom line. So does
anybody have any questions or comments about that part of it? These are great questions too Brad, by the way.

Okay, then we're gonna keep going. |

Brad Niebuhr 15:59

pretty much answered it. i These were the answers | was pretty much expecting. But | wanted to hear for sure. And |
think you answered the both of you guys answered the last question. | could be wrong. | could, maybe | am. But |
think you're gonna say, structure is the one thing that's going to tell us to get to dictate whether we move ahead

faster or slower. Yeah,

Russ 16:25

well, I'll go ahead and jump right into the how to go, Oh, you want to take a steak.

Staci Gray 16:30

There's just a saying "structure equals freedom”. And it’s counterintuitive for all of us freedom fighters, and these
people that we revolt against the idea of any type of control or anything, but the truth is in your business, you are
more free, the more structure and discipline you have. And it seems counterintuitive. But if you have even even the
mental capacity, and I'll just use physique for an example, right? If you've already decided in your mind, you're not
going to drink you're not going to eat sugar you are there's that's non negotiable, you show up at a bar, you're not
even reciting the mental clutter isn't even there, you've already made the decision. And the same is true in business
operations, when you already made a decision, this is the standard way we are going to do it. There’s no question
when you go to execute, you can just execute and there's no debate, there’s no, well, you said last time this and this
time, we're going to do this. And sometimes we're going to do this and what if this happens? What if | really liked
that person, | want to have a drink with him? No, we already decided that this is the structure. And there's so much
freedom in that because you have this standard in the standard of excellence, and then you hire to that. So you hire
your team, and you surround yourself with advisors and partners and everybody who has those same standards and
values. It removes all of the redundancies, all of the rework all of the drama, and it just lets you go do the mission,
which we're all madly passionate about. And so yeah, it's the structure. And it seems counterintuitive, but it works. So

well.

Russ 18:07

Vision Plus knowledge plus discipline, equals effective action. And it's a discipline. And | think to Stacey’s point,
discipline, it’s not a bad thing. It's a great thing. And the beautiful thing about discipline about having this is how we
do it here this is our process is that it also allows for redundancy of all vital functions, which means quality of life for
got to do. And that is really what you got to do. That's the secret, |

CG Staci Gray 23:06

think also like discipline, right? It's the unsexy side of it. But if you're disciplined in how you eat and how you exercise,
it shows up. So Jared and Eric are example, right? from the business perspective, like it is, if you're disciplined and you
have that structure, it shows up, okay, | close two deals, | raised 90 million, it shows up. So it’s not necessarily the
funnest sexiest side of it, but it will manifest and it will, you'll it will be seen like that in the marketplace.

© Russ 23:36

Yeah, if you're building a scaffold, or a ladder, or some platform to reach the high fruit, way up in the tree, you want
that base solid, you want that thing structure, you want that structure very solid, so you can reach higher. That's what
your business structure provides for you provides a platform for you to reach higher, the less care and attention you
put into building that foundation, that platform, the less high the less, the more concerned you are. And I'll add one
other thing to it that | think is really, really important. And it isn’t just the the operational structure, but it is the
financial structure, the financial modeling, you must think of cash as blood. And so if you look at your body as an
organism, you need to take a breath. As soon as you give birth to a business, you have to you have to work
aggressively to getting that first breath. If you can’t get this baby breathing on its own it is going to die. So I’m
adamant as you know, Brad that you've got to get to that first breath. You always have to know the short path the
cash cash is oxygen. And so | have to be able to raise money. So | got to know how am | going to get that breath. But
once you take that breath, you have an organism are an organization of individual cells, or collections of cells like
departments that are groups that need to be fed that nourishment so you breathe Oxygen in and your circulatory
system, which is your financial model has to circulate that money to all vital functions. If in your financial model, you
have failed to fund a vital function like raising money, like doing the property manager, like covering the books,
anything that you fail to cover that needs to be done, if you're a good person, if you're a diligent person, it's going to
end on you because you're the only person in the organization willing to work for free, and you become the
bottleneck. So you must make sure that when you identify all of the work that needs to be done, you've also
identified how it’s going to be paid for and that's built into your model. And that'll help you be more responsible, it’s
just no different than mean, you have a background in contracting if you go bid a job. And | know that you gave this
job to somebody, you gave the job of bidding jobs to somebody who who didn't know what they were doing. And so
what they ended up doing was not bidding enough. Now all said, You've got to put workers out there, and you've got
to provide supplies, and you don't have enough cash to do it. So you're, you're, you're gasping for air, right. And that's
the same thing. There's no different in your business, everything needs to be paid for, which means you really have to
understand what your processes are, how long they take, how much each of the people and the systems involved to
make the things happen cost. And then you can begin to fine tune your model the same way a cost accountant
would go in or somebody who's really good at estimating, they really understand all the components of cost. And a
great estimator who really knows their numbers can dial it down and still be profitable as a professional business
person does, they drive down their costs to do and yet they're still profitable. And in fact, because he can drive down
their costs to do and remain profitable. So it's two parts. It’s the structure of the team and the workflow and the work
that needs to be done. And then it's the financial overlay on top of that, to make sure that all of those things are
paid for in a model, out of the profits you generate. Because if you don’t have those two things present, the bigger
you get, the weaker you will become. If you do have all those things proper, the bigger you get, the stronger you will
become the key to going bigger, faster is a great model. And it's iterative, right? You learn it by doing and some of it
is going to be based on just running your syndication business, which is a separate business, from whatever your
project business, if you're a guy that is running projects, like Buck Joffrey, or Dave suck, they’re not running projects,
they just raise money, they're running a syndication business, and they go look for people that are running projects,
those things produce gross profit, they come over and then you use that gross profit to work on your model in your

syndication business. If you're doing both, then you need to recognize those are two separate businesses, the people
conversation. That's not how it works in the real world. You have to go stumble over your feet say the wrong thing.
Oops, that didn't work and tested out. And that’s how you learn your voice and you perfect how you're going to
communicate your your brand, your mission, and you're going to know what lands in the marketplace. That's the only
way you're going to do it. So | think the things that people are doing correctly are just having a massive bias towards

action.

Russ 10:17

Okay, so I'm going to say what Staci can't say. But | can tell you from watching Eric Shelley watching Jarrid
Cavanaugh, and you can talk to both of those guys, obviously, Brad, because you're an inner circle, but anybody
when you're at the meetups, here's the bottom line is both of those guys were trying to figure it out on their own,
trying to figure out how to organize the team, organize their processes on their own. And then one day after beating
their head against the wall, they threw up their hands and they hired Staci and organized to scale. And it was like
night and day, it just took off. Okay, she can't say that because it sounds like sales pitch. I'm gonna say it. Because
it's the truth. The reality is, is you know, most of us are deal doers, we're salespeople as we should be, and Staci's
point is well taken, you have to go out there and find investors and find deals, right, that's your, your thing, all the rest
of the stuff that has to happen accounting, legal tech, organizing the business processes, so that you are ina
position to scale which means that you're ready to bring on an investor relations person, somebody who can do your
advanced due diligence, somebody who can go out and scout marketplaces, screen incoming deals, right, all of
those things are processes. And you know, Stacey and | did a video, | think at one point where we just discussed,
everything is a process, everything is a process. So everything that has to happen is a process. And if the first thing
you have to do is figure out what needs to happen, and then the next thing you have to do is figure out what is the
process, then you have to organize and systemize that process. And if you're not an organized systemize, the process
kind of person and most of us aren't, then you got to get somebody on board who really knows how to do that at a
high level. Once you have that done, then there's a continuous improvement, iterative process. Stacey talked about
iterating your voice, which is totally true. It's | talk a lot because | process out loud. You know, if you're around me at a
trade show, I'm running around talking to everybody. And my message. If you're with me on day one, by day four is a
lot different. It's a lot more clear. It's a lot more focused. Those of you that were at the inner circle dinner, the last
night, we're hearing me say things and some of the stuff that came out even at the syndication mentoring club,
meetup were more clear than they were when | arrived in New Orleans. But after listening to George gammon after
hanging out in the back room, after having a lot of conversations by explaining who we are what we're doing in the
context of what's going on in the world, | iterated a more clear a more powerful message. Well, same thing is true in
operations. You iterate. And and so you have to have somebody managing that process. And there's too many
processes for you to manage. And so the more things you can get off your plate that you don't have to manage, the
better. Because if you're not doing vision, if you're not doing strategy, if you aren't the ultimate, the buck stops here,
culture keeper, nobody else is going to do that. Right. There’s certain things as | talked about a secrets of successful
syndication, that you have to do it, you have to be good at leadership and communication that's on you. You're the
leader. The process partner, not so much. | mean, I'm a classic example. Right, | was just slogging along because we
had built a business, we had to lay everybody off. And it caused a lot of personal angst. | mean, Stacy was part of
that layoff. And | mean, it hurt our relationship a little bit. My other daughters. | mean, you know, it was just hard
people were my friends, we had to let them all go. And even though everybody knew it wasn't really our fault, it kind
of still felt like it. | mean, it was a lot. And so because of that trauma, I’m just like, No, I'm never going to build a team
again, I'm just going to schlep along And I'll work 18 hours a day, seven days a week, because | love it. | don't care
more to the bottom line, less responsibility. That was fine. Then my wife got sick, oh, my God, | had this big crisis, |
had to figure out how to go bigger. And | knew | wasn't the guy to do it. That's where | called Stacy. And | said, Hey,
come save me. And help me be there for your mom. And she did. And of course, the reality is, is all of us have that
same issue. And you know, not that not the issue of losing a spouse like | did. But we all have the same issue that we
can't possibly do at all. It's not possible. We're not good at all things. We don't have enough time. We don't have
enough focus. We don't have enough energy. So | think the biggest mistake and the flip side to Stacy's point, the flip
side of the biggest mistake is what you do right is immediately get somebody on board who can be your your chief
VnY y, PHS, VIVUU YUSCSLIVIIS, WE CYUUIU UY U WHIYIS SYISYVUS VII LUI. OY FT TIUVe LUTIYs LY OUYy. DULTFULIITD LIU! PIUVve Tie

launch into my rant, but Staci go first.

@) Staci Gray 01:50

So since this is business operations, I'm assuming the question is, what's the biggest mistake we see in business
syndicators making business operations? What's the biggest What's the thing they do correctly in business
operations? And what's the thing that they can do in terms of business operations to scale faster?

© Russ 02:07

Yes, I'm gonna answer it. 100%. That's, that's the topic.

® Staci Gray 02:12

Okay. Um, the biggest mistake that | think I'm seeing syndicators make in terms of business operations, is over
analyzing it. So feeling like they need to have all everything lined up everything done in the infrastructure set up for
the next 10 years, and micromanaging all the nitty gritty details, but and then feeling like they need a deal before
they can do anything. Instead of just doing the MVP, which we're going to go over in that series, so that will be part
of what we get get into November 9. Instead of surrounding themselves with people who can do it, and then trusting
those people to do it. So having been in this before OTS was even a thing, having been setting up the syndication
mentoring club and watching the inner circle members come through the Civic Education mentoring club members
come through and watching them struggle to figure out how to bridge the gap from idea to execution inside of their
syndication business. They struggle with trying to be the expert. Okay, what about my deal joining my PPM do! need
my bank accounts do | need my website? What am | going to name it? Who do | call when this happens, and then
just gets overwhelmed with all the chatter of all the what if scenarios that could possibly happen? But you get so
much clarity when you take action. And so those that are in you guys are all in the club, so you're surrounded in the
condo platform is full of answers to all the questions you could possibly need. Plus you have the community calls and
ask the mentor calls, just start doing stuff, just start talking with investors, even if you don't have a deal. In fact, | just
did this after the syndication seminar. | went to Cozumel for a week. And many of you met Joel. And we decided he's
like, | want to start a syndication business. And he went through the same things | hear all of you guys say, Well, |
don't have a deal. And who am | going to talk to and all this stuff - And I'm like, No, let's just get on the boat with all
these scuba divers who are affluent people and tell them that we are structuring some deals that have tax savings,
blah, blah, blah... we ended up in these huge, amazing conversations. And we have no deal. We don't even have a
business name. We don't even have anything but we were able to now have these relationships. One of the guys

owns what is like a duck, the country club for duck hunters in the coast here in Texas. And it’s he was written up in the
news and all these things and now he's inviting us down there and all the people that go down there affluent people
Who do those types of things. So you're just getting into a relationship and having conversations with having
nothing. So | think that's the biggest mistake that | see people make. And |, we analyze people based on their DISC
profile. And the ones that knock it out of the park are the ones that are higher D, the ones that are high C, if any of
you are familiar with the DISC profile, the ones that are high C, | see struggling more. And if you are high C, there's a
solution for it. There's nothing wrong with your personality, there's solution, pair yourself with somebody who's a D,
they will not let you stay stuck in that overanalyzing pattern that you get into and Russ can talk to this because he’s
a high C.

© Russ 05:48

Vanh Im a hiah C hit I'm alen an aff tha chart Do Gal hAlARncAaAd muecalf aint | hava all thaca innar canvarceantinnce |
son was doing the show, we're talking about raising funds. | think that was my biggest takeaway from that session is
you can actually use the same rounds, you know, series A Series B Series D for raising money in real estate that tech
companies did. Yeah.

Russ 34:54

Yeah. Yeah. So if any of you are on this, you didn't have a chance to see the how to fund an idea deal we did go
watch that, because that's what he's talking about. And actually, | remember because I'm the one that came up with
that, that strategy when we were doing that deal in San Antonio. And | totally borrowed it right from Silicon Valley.
We were in Silicon Valley, | was experienced in that type of financing structure. And so why don't we just apply this to
real estate. And a lot of times, and that's why we go to places like New Orleans and go to places that aren't really
real estate, you go there, and you find out that there are ways that people handle their problems or look at the
world, or their business processes, and you can apply something from an industry has nothing to do with yours, but
you get some innovation and bring it over. And it's it’s like, it’s like, commonplace in one area and you bring it into
your world and people like oh my god, that's so innovative. Well, it’s not really innovative. | just, | just stole it from
another industry that it for whatever reason, hasn't made its way over here yet. So good. Okay, what else? Any
questions, operational questions, we got Stacey here. You know, if you're just in the front end of putting your business
together, you might not even know what you don't know, if you are putting your business together and you're
struggling. | mean, the whole idea of a mentoring call is, you know, you come in with the ideas. Okay, what am |
working on? I'm building my business, specifically from an operational perspective, Okay, where am | at? You know,
I'm just getting started or whatever, this is my next thing. Where am | stuck. Because the whole purpose of this is to
get you unstuck fast, right, you're going to go through, you're going to go through a process of wanting to do
something, trying to do something getting stuck. And then there's gonna be a period of time where you're stunted,
you're you're hindered, you can't break through, and how long you stay stuck, just drags out the process. So the
quicker you can get unstuck, the quicker you can get back in the field, it's like getting knocked out of the game, you
know, with a with a, we used to call it you know, getting your bell rung or you know, a stinger or something, you know,
you get you get pulled out of the game. It quicker you can get back on the field, you're back to move in the ball
again. Right. And motocross you know, when you're up in the air, your tire is there's no gas getting to the ground,

you're not advancing. Right. So

Staci Gray 37:08

Can | just find stuck, because some people come on these calls and from the syndicators that I've talked to is like,
Well, I'm not stuck. I'm just, I'm just learning. I'm just learning. If you're current, so you're consistently learning and not
taking action, you're stuck. That's right, have a research business, not an actual business. So if you aren't raising
capital, talking to investors doing deals, you're stuck. And | think having that that mindset of what stuck is will help
you get on these, ask the mentor calls and say, Hey, I’m stuck because | am, I'm stuck on this idea that | have to have
a deal before | move forward, how can | navigate that? Or I'm stuck on this idea that | have to build a business name
and a website? How do | move forward. So if any of you are stuck in any of those levels of launching your syndication
business, let's, let's talk about it. And then the other thing is what Russ was just saying is, when you're stuck for a
really long time, it will erode your confidence in people who are not competent, don't take action. And it is it's a race
to the bottom. So get on these and use the tribe because we don't want anyone to be stuck, especially with all the
community calls, ask the mentors, the series, the advisors, the events, everything. So raise your hand, ask the
questions, and really spend the hours that you have on these calls to get the most out of it. Because it will boost your
confidence, which will create momentum. And that's what we need to really build businesses and achieve the mission
of taking money out of Wall Street and just anyone who's at NYC, getting out of the system, and taking our power
back and having the freedom within our individual spaces. So | just want to put that in there. Because a lot of times

people think they're not stuck when they're just studying. And you're stuck if you're just study.
Russ 38:58

Amen. | mean, Couldn't have said it any better. In fact, there was a couple of nuggets in there that were really solid.
Yeah, that's a key. You're deluding yourself, right. Again, if you think about giving birth, and if you're not breathing, it's
it's an or it's urgent. | mean, it's an emergency. Right? Brad can tell you on the inner circle calls, we get zero when
somebody goes around and you haven't raised any money in a quarter. We need to figure out why. Because you're
flatlining. You're not breathing, there's a problem. Or you're you're breathing so slowly, you know, you're not healthy.
You know, you can't go You can't go quarter after quarter without raising money in this business or you're going to
die. The fact that you can pay your bills because of your investments or because of your other business doesn't mean
your syndication business isn't flatlining. | mean that would be like saying, Gosh, well, I've got three kids and this
newborn infant is not breathing but it's okay the other three are what No, it’s not okay. Right. This this just this baby
is dying. So you it you have to take it seriously. Again, this is you know, Brad has been able to coast a little bit
because he had this other business now set and his, his level of commitment is understanding, hey, | got to solve
these problems, | can't put them off, I've got to do it now. It's now or never that sense of urgency that outrageous
sense of urgency has to exist. Because if you don't have it, the whole rest of your team's not going to have it. | mean,
you're you're, you're the bowl, what | call the bowl, the business unit leader, you you have to have the strength of will,
that you put the whole wagon train of team on your back and you're pulling forward against all resistance, you're
going uphill, you're going to your walls, you're going through, you're wading through streams, you you have to be this
relentless force of nature that will not back off, will not give in will not give up. And that's why | love the acronym of a
bowl. Because that's what you have to be and | won't launch a business until | have a bowl. If | don't have somebody
who's got that kind of personality, | can't | have a great idea for a new business unit, but | can't do it. | can't, | can't, |
can't carry the whole thing can’t be me. So I've got to find that person who's going to be the bowl. And in your guys’s
case, you may say, Well, I'm gonna have somebody who's going to be that person in my operations, right? That's
what Stacey is to me. You're gonna have someone who's that in your in your financial department, okay, you got to
have that CFO, that person who's going to be responsible for all those things. You may have somebody in your
underwriting your your due diligence, your deal acquisition, you know, over the years, Kenny McElroy would come out
to the secrets of successful syndication and introduce different people he had, that we're heading up his acquisition,
this was the person who's out there, combing through everything, looking at deals, underwriting deals, when it made
it through first, second third cut, then he’d bring it to the, to the committee once a week, they had a meeting, and
Kenny would sit in the meeting, and they would show him the deal. But these are deals were already prevented by his
team. So he wasn't spending a lot of time looking anything that didn't have a good chance of being acceptable. He
had another person who was in charge of his investor relations. This was the person who was out there taking all the
interest in MC companies that Kenny was creating, by being out there on the speaking circuit with Robert Kiyosaki.
And that person followed up on those leads and nurture those relationships and and then when the time in and
found out what people were interested in what they wanted their capital, do their needs, wants, desires, goals and
objectives as we teach them how to win funds and influence people. And then when a deal was ready that match
that he was the guy that would take it to them and close the sale. Right? And again, Kenny wasn't doing as stop, can
you build the machine. And so operationally, that’s what that's what you're doing. Again, go back to that very first
video, right, you got the root system, your mission, vision values, you got your trunk, your legal structure, your
accounting structure, your technology structure, you have your three main branches, onboarding, investors,
onboarding deals, onboarding team members, so that the whole thing grows. If you grow too big on top, and you
don't have good roots, you're going to get blown over the first time you have adversity, if you don't have a great
trunk, you get really big up top, you might have strong roots, but the whole thing is going to fall over because your
legal accounting, and technology structure won't support it. So everything has to be growing, which means all of
those operational departments have to have bowls, leading the charge. That's what a CEO is, | got my chief
marketing officer, my chief financial officer, my chief operations officer, my chief technology officer, | got four people
that | deal with, and they deal with everything else. And then the board, the owner is dealing with the CEO whose job
it is, is to come here what the board's vision is, and then be the chief executive officer to implement that vision. kind
of way the United States work theoretically, right, we have the elected representatives that decide what the laws are,
they're the representatives of the people, and then you hire a chief executive to be the person who's going to
October 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Business
Operatio...

@ Fri, 10/29 8:39AM @59:20

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

business, syndication, people, deal, money, stacey, structure, build, big, stacy, person, calls, breathe, investors, questions, real,

talking, running, biggest mistake, raise

SPEAKERS

Brad Niebuhr, Staci Gray, Adam, Russ, Ken Hosac, Kevin

) Russ 00:02

Alright syndication mentoring club, it is our Ask The Mentors call business operations for October 2021. And we have
a good group, we just got back from a super exciting new orleans investment conference and a follow up meetup
where we had a lot of fun. We learned how to do the cowboy Exchange, which was really, really fun. And going to do
some more of that I'm sure in our future, but today, we are here with Stacey gray. And we're going to be just talking
about getting our getting our act together. And it's a never ending challenge. So | believe we had one question
submitted from Matthew. And | don't see him here. So rather than go there, while I'm still looking for that email, let's
just kind of open it up to anybody. Well, | guess stay. So I'm going to talk to you first because | submitted

© Brad Niebuhr 00:53
something | didn't must. Oh, you didn't get it? Why don't you?

CG) Russ 00:58

Okay, Brad, you're up.

© Brad Niebuhr 01:00

Okay. It was actually a combination of three questions. And one. One, what's the biggest mistake that you see
syndicators making? What's the second one would be what's the biggest thing you see syndicators doing correctly?
And then what do you see syndicators doing? Or what should syndicators like the number one thing we should be

doing to build our business faster?

© Russ 01:32

OLA nian Aeanand Aiiactianne win raiulAd AAR A aThAlA AKniceARAAR An KAA CA lL AAA HhAinane FA cA Rit vAthAr HhAR AAVIA ma
© Russ 57:05

JO

Yep. Okay. So yeah, we'll do that. Yeah, bring it into the next call. Or maybe if it's big enough, we can do like a hot
topic call or something on it. And then, and then hopefully, you all know, | don't know if we've gotten the
announcement out. But starting November 9 every other Tuesday for | don't know how long however long it's gonna
take. We | think we've got 13 or 14 weeks committed to it, Stacey and | mapped out on our calendar, we're going to
do what's basically a fast start series. So we're going to take this new group of people that have come in, | think,
Dustin, you're pretty new, right? fairly new. Yeah. And just trying to figure out which way is up, we're just going to go
through step by step, right? It's not, not a manual, not little yellow feet, we're not telling you what to do. But we're
going to be available to answer your questions. And we have a scope and sequence that we're working on. So it's still
gonna be Ross are going to be real, but we just want to bring that boat that that that boat of implementation a little
bit closer to the dock that you're standing on, right, we had it further out, you know, in because we feel like you have
to be able to, you know, to mix metaphors, like a sparkplug, you have to be able to arc that gap if we back it up. And
you never have to struggle with making order out of chaos, you you, we haven't developed an entrepreneur, you're
going to be weak, be like if | told my kid, | carried them everywhere and never let them run around and play, never let
them stress they'd never developed any muscles. Right. In order for you to grow, you've got to, you've got to stress a
little bit. But we just want you to stress, we just don't want you to fail. And so we want to be here for you to prop you
up. And we're just trying to find that that right spacing, so we felt like we wanted to bring it just a little bit closer. And
that's what this series is going to be all about. And then it'll become a recorded series for new members to come in
and take advantage of so would appreciate as much participation as we can get in all of that, depending on when
you're seeing this if you have time to join in. | hope you do this every other Tuesday starting November 9. So you
might want to start saving your every other Tuesday nights starting November 9. So that you'll be available to see
those things live and participate. Okay, Stacy, any closing thoughts or words? Good to go. Okay, kids. Appreciate it.
Thank you so much. We'll see you on the next one.

59:16
Thank you
everybody in your organization, you don't have as much drama people aren't getting stressed out. Because they're
over capacity. They can dish to other people on the team, because there is a process to follow. As long as you're a
diligent person and can read it about a 10th grade level, you probably can execute most of the fundamental
processes, the things that require judgment, of course, that's different. But you know, you're talking about a lot of
operational stuff. And the other thing is, is you're less victimized by turnover, you know, if you have an employee or a
teammate, Team person who walks out the door, and they take the how to win them. And they haven't left any of
that behind your host, right, somebody else is going to have to come in and just reverse engineer how to get the job
done, and figure it out. And it's just constant rework or reinvention, reinventing the wheel and it's completely
unnecessary. It's one of the reasons why when we started this program, | felt one of the biggest value ads we would
have was having some type of operational expert who would run around and be actively investigating what the
successful syndicators were doing what the the, the struggling syndicators were missing, and share that information
so that we could all compress timeframes and how quickly we solve our operational issues. | didn't know how we
were going to do that. When we started. | just knew needed to be done. And then over the course of time, Stacy saw
in that a business opportunity and came to me and said, hey, | can do this. I'm really good at it. | want to do it and
people need it. How about we handle it this way? I’m like great, and it turned out to be Be vantastic for everybody.
But | think | think the point is an entrepreneur goes out into the marketplace, by definition is somebody who makes
order out of chaos. If you cannot make structure out of chaos, you can't be an entrepreneur, being an entrepreneur is
the essence of organizing. That's, that's what entrepreneurs do. They organize teams, they organize systems, they
organize relationships in order to prosecute a mission that’s based on a vision of what it’s looked like when it's
working. And so if you have the vision, and you know what you're trying to build, and you have the, the knowledge,
meaning you have the technical advisors on the board, or you know where to find the technical advisors, then the
only thing left is the discipline, Vision Plus knowledge plus discipline equals effective action. And of course, if you
build it properly, the whole organization is disciplined. And then you can flit around, you know, | mean, look at Kenny
McElroy, Kenny Kenny, he's built his business through these very same systems, | think he used scaling up with Vern
Harnish, which is, you know, just like a variation of chat traction with Gino Wickman, Stacey took kind of the best
practices of those things and wrapped up into the way she's organized OTs and she customized it all by focusing on
the niche of syndicators. But But however you get there, the point is, is once you have that structure in place, the
business is structured, so you're free, you're free to come and go because everything is just running, and you don't
have to figure it out over and over and over again. And and the other thing, you since the context of this is being
able to go faster, I'll just tell you, from my own experience, how quickly | can launch a new business unit or a new
business initiative, how quickly | can organize | mean, you know, I've got 150 plus people coming out are almost 150,
about 148. Right now, coming out the front sight in in a couple weeks. It's gonna be a great hang. | didn't have to do
as much work as | did when | tried to get 40 out there on my own. Right, I’m actually able to go bigger, faster. The
last secrets of successful syndication, 280 people | didn't write or send or proofread a single email in the campaign,
right? The team filled that all up, based on running the system that we developed, | was part of it, said watch me do
it, then you do it. And I'll watch you now they're just doing it. And I'm not even involved. Right, that's freeing. Now I'm
off doing other things. That's what will happen for you. That's the key to going bigger, faster. And | know this. | mean,
you know, we just talked about opening up with the New Orleans investment conference. Brad, you probably
remember that after party discussion we had where | gave you guys, you know, what's your word for the year?

Remember what it was? What was your word?

Brad Niebuhr 22:50

Structure

Russ 22:51

structure. That's the secret. And people hear the words, but they really don't know what it means, right? | mean, you
know, it's like, but but as you as you get closer, and you get frustrated, all sudden, it's like, okay, this is really what |
implement that. No different. So you know, you have to have an idea of vision in your mind of what you're building,
and then build all kinds of operations, all kinds of processes to support all that structure. And it can be tiny in the
beginning and you do everything but if you don't see it, what it can be, you know, and and you don't realize that, you
know, you know, if you've ever planted a little tree, you know, weak roots, they're not deep. They've never been
through hard times. You've got weak trunk, think a break or blow over. Right? You're not going to get much fruit with
little branches, right? You got to get you got to nurture that tree till it's big and strong and robust and resilient. That's
what you're doing with your business. That's why | like the picture of a tree a lot better than an organizational chart
because | think that metaphor fits so much better for what you're doing. Okay, well, we don't have to use a whole
hour we got 13 minutes left. So you guys, Stacy and | for 13 more minutes. Anybody out else working on something
operationally and they need? They need help?

Adam 44:38

Yeah, I've got a question my just kind of based about when | said implement something, or when is it right to, | guess
scale to having other people do things isn't a way to know when | need to like offload tasks. Maybe that’s a little
more delegating, but it’s kind of for when do | need to do these business operations and

Russ 44:59

Okay, that’s a business In this question, so I'll answer it first. And Stacy is, of course, a business person and also an
operational person. If your goal is to be big, then you're going to be pressing into that bigness as fast as you can get
there, right? You just want to go as fast as you can go. So how do you know how fast you can go? It's gonna depend
on your cash flow. Right? So if if you don't have the cash flow, you can create negative cash flow, because every
dollar that you invest in, there’s no such thing as expenses in business, there's good investments and bad
investments, a bad investment becomes an expense. But if you're making good investments, they're all profitable,
right? You should get an ROI on every investment. So for you know, you have to, one of the things entrepreneurs have
to learn to do is to let go of consumer mentality, they can't be trying to save money, you can't make money, saving
money, just like you can't make money. As an investor saving money savers are losers. So it’s true in business. It's true
and investing. So the answer is you have to make great investments. And so you use Gary Keller's concept of the one
thing, what is the one thing operationally | can do that is going to move a lot of other things? Right? What is the
scope and sequence the logical evolvement of a business? You know, Ken's coming at it from a development of he
builds things, you know, you don't put the roof on, before you put the foundation on. Right? So you just have to
understand the things you got to get in place. So | go through phases. First phase is from conception to launch,
which is | gotta get to my MVP, what is the minimum viable product | can do to get this baby breathing? Number two
is getting from MVP to critical mass. When do | get to the point where I'm breathing enough that I'm not on? I'm not
on, you know, supplements? I’m not, I'm not drawing down on my cash reserves and running negative cash flow, | get
to positive cash flow. And then the third thing is where we hope we spend most of our career is how do | get from,
from critical mass to gravitational pole? gravitational pole is when you built a brand and a business? It's so good that
so strong has so much goodwill, that deals and money come to you, people come to you people want to work there,
they want to invest there, they want to bring their deals to you. Right? That's what we're doing in the club. That's
what each of you are doing in your own individual businesses? So the answer is you want to go as fast as you can.
You want to invest strategically in the one things that you consistently find. And then you have to be able to you got
to do it based on responsible cash flow, making good investments. The good news is in this business, you can go as
fast as you want. If you do as Stacey suggested, which is always know that you are raising money, even when you
don't have a deal. You're lining up investors, you're building goodwill, you're figuring out who they are, what their
capital, you know, what they want their capital to do needs, wants, desires, goals and objectives. And again, you
don't have to have a big fancy database. You can do it on a spreadsheet. You can do it in a ring binder, right? If you
have Kenny McElroy had 160 investors when we first met him, he was already huge, right? You have 60 investors that
all construct a million dollars, you know, have a million dollars invested with you. You have a nice business. You know,
that Stacy's working with that do both are actually having OTS organized both their syndication business and their
project business. Because they're finding that that, that that level, and that was kind of a surprise, because Stacy, you
know, came into organized syndication business and like, hey, they want to hire me to do my, my house building
business or my whatever business, right? But if those businesses aren't working, well, then they're gonna they're

gonna fail too. But at least if you're if you're only on the money side, you're a little bit distanced from that. So that's,
that's a whole different discussion about strategy and deciding who you are one of the things we talked about at the
beginning of secrets of successful syndication. But the key, the key to going bigger, faster, is proper structure, and a
proper financial model that feeds the machine so that the machine can feed you. Okay. Alright, so that was a lot.
But since we didn't have a big deck of questions, | thought we'd riff on that a little bit. Staci, you want to add
anything to that? Or did | cover it?

(s) Staci Gray 28:39

Let's say Brad wants to add something.

© Russ 28:40

You got another one? Brad?

© Brad Niebuhr 28:42

| was just gonna say, thank you guys. That was awesome. Awesome.

© Russ 28:45

Well, we recorded it so everybody can watch it over and over again. And | love this. Because this whole ask the
mentors is about meeting you guys in the real world and answer your real world questions. It's hard to find the
answers. But when you find them there, they should be very relevant because they're coming right out of the real
well, | mean, you've been in the program a long time. You've heard all these things before. But now you know, when
the student is ready, the teacher appears because you're cutting ties with your, your, your contracting business, and
you're betting the farm on your syndication business all sudden, it's become real. It’s like, Oh, | better get more
serious about this. And | think that's the sooner you get serious about it. The sooner you, you don't just try to build us
in when you commit. Right. | mean, that's how it happened for me, | had all these little side business and | had my
little corporate job and | was safe, right? But the day it really happened for me was the day | cut ties and committed
and all said it wasn't theory. It wasn’t a game. It wasn't a hobby. This was this was the real deal. It was like a Top
Gun. You know, at the very end, it’s like they get called into a live firefight. Gentlemen, this is what you were trained
for. Right? All the rest of it was just, you know, you're a Top Gun and you're doing all the practice runs, and it's
dangerous and it's feels real, but it’s not real. When you get out and it's really real. You know, the stress is very good.
Every one of my favorite movies just because the contrast you know, it's all fun and games when they're out there
practicing and even though somebody died, right even in practice, but but when you get out in the real world, |
mean, the tension the the level, this is like when you do the firearms training, you know, when you get put under
pressure, your skill set goes way down. So, it’s why you want to do the visualization and be thinking about all this
stuff get before you go, but but making the big commitment is a big part of it, too. Okay. All right. What else? Okay,
we got, yeah, yeah, Ken...
IweuUil, Ertl VU Pirggit we, MUL TIT Ulow Ul YI LIIS VIII bv. YY I YVUIUPIECOU rrlysowetl WU. PIIMAVS Ul LIMOS TIDISE VYIIVELPOULIVIlo, I

have the side of me that is scared to jump off the diving board and the other one that's sitting there coaxing me into
the water. So yeah, so | think that from an operational standpoint, I'm going to try and boil that down. Because you
know, | like to, | like to have just little simple things. You can have rules you can play by patterns and principles | look
for. And the biggest mistake is people ask themselves, how do | do this? Instead of how, how can | get this done,
which are two very different things. And when you start operationally realizing that you're going to build a team and
lean on the team, you no longer care about knowing how it gets done, you only care that you've gotten it that
somebody is clear about what needs to be done at the at the big picture in terms of results and the tactics to get
from where you are to there belongs to somebody else and not you. And your mission is simply then to empower
them with the resources they need. Even if you put somebody in charge of it, they don’t know how to do it. Their job
is to go find somebody who does know how to do it we brought Mauricio in to be our General Counsel. He had a
background in maritime litigation, he knew nothing about asset protection. He knew nothing about syndication. But
he became our point man because he understood how to speak lawyer. And | said, Look, | will hire you whatever
lawyers you need. You run quarterback, you go find out what the question is, you go ask the questions, you get the
answer. And over a period of time, you're going to become expert. And he became so expert, he was able to launch
his own firm, providing all those services. And now he | think he’s probably one of the best most knowledgeable
syndication attorneys out there because he focused on it. But he learned by doing and | think that Stacy's point you
learn by doing, you learn by acting. So the idea that you're going to sit and you're going to blueprint, and you're
going to figure it all out before you have to go out and take any risk, take any chances. It just doesn't work that way.
So the biggest mistake is over analyzing on the C side and not being a D and deriving into the marketplace and
attacking the marketplace, having faith that all of the resources you need are around you. That's why we have the
mentoring club. The whole purpose of this is that you have a whole bunch of people, you have these calls. In your
case, Brad, you've got inner circle, you've got me you've got Robert, if | can't answer your question, if Robert can't
answer your question, then we're going to start banging the phone and calling the super syndicators that we know
that we have direct access to maybe that you don't so far, you guys haven't stumped us. But you know, we you know,
the bigger you get, the more likely that's gonna happen because some of you are just crushing it. So that’s on the
biggest mistake side before we move on to the doing right side. Does anybody else want to ask anything more? Or
ask for any clarifying or have any additional comments with regard to the you know, doing wrong and I'll start with

you Brad, since it was your question

Brad Niebuhr 08:43
No, that that pretty much answered it.

Russ 08:47

Okay, all right. Good. Anybody else make it quick? Okay, so let's move on Stace to doing doing right what what is the
thing you see that people absolutely do right? What are they what do they figure out early?

Staci Gray 09:00

| think the the flip side of the biggest mistake is what they do right which ties in very much into the third thing which
is how do you scale faster in terms of building your business and | | think it's just talking with people just get out there
and talk with people and talk with investors talk with people who aren't even investors in perfect your voice | think so
much of and | know this is business operations but you don't need business operations if you don't have if you're not
selling so there's no point in getting all the under the hood stuff set up if you're not you're you're not out there selling
so | | think that under just people think that they're going to have the perfect sales pitch. The first time they go out
there that | want to have a perfect sales pitch | want to all buttoned up | want to all nice before | have a
