is could be, and they created just messes, and it was awful. And | just didn’t realize what | had done. So | came out
and just understand when you're building a business, or you're building an entity structure, or you're building a
building, you're basically going to have three teams. And once | figured it out, it’s like, oh, gosh, it’s so obvious, | can't
believe that | wasted hundreds of 1000s of dollars being so stupid, and not understanding this. So at the conceptual
stage, at the design stage, you get your strategist on board, you get them all in a room, and you say, this is what we
need to build, and then they hash it out, you get a blueprint, and then they will turn it over typically to their their staff
who will help you put it all in place. And then and then the transition team is going to be that implementation team
or maybe, you know, kind of a bridge team is going to come in and train the operational people who are going to run
it, the bookkeepers, people, we're going to handle the compliance and all that, you know, depending on, you know
what it is, and then they're going to, they're going to maintain it. And then the only other thing you need to do is get
together with a strategist or stay in touch with your strategist from time to time for reviews, and give them
permission to, you know, ping you proactively, if something changes in the tax code or in the law, or in the
environment, that you're operating in the jurisdiction, where you would want to make shifts and in a good, a good
provider is going to be proactive. It’s one of my core questions. In fact, I'm upset because | brought out a two Tree
Service to my house a year ago. And | told him, this is what | want it | said, | don’t want to have to think about what
time of year | should trim my trees, | want you to call me, right? Well, | walk outside the other day, my trees are all
overgrown, and like what the hell, where are these people? Right? They | told him, this is what | wanted, | don't have
time to keep up on trees, | don't care about trees, | just don’t like them when they're overgrown, and | don't know
when to trim them. Right. So | would | would get him involved early at the design level and design it and get it
blueprinted and flowchart it and again you have your legal structure. And then on top of your legal structure, you put
your accounting structure, and then you know maybe your technology but certainly your insurance, right. So all of
that has to be in place and then the people are trained to the system, you pay the bills from here, you store the
money there. This entity gets paid out of this and you know, and you have to make sure the insurance policies are
actually ensuring the entities are taking the risk, where you can say Oh, | got a! got a policy. You know, | got a
directors and officers insurance policy for my holding company. And then you're doing all your business and your
operating company or your management company and you don't have the DNO there. That's why the secrets of
successful syndication insurance company, you guys go back and watch those modules, | show you where the
insurance policies should go. Or at least they give you a starting point to engage in a discussion with your your
counsel and your insurance people to make sure that you have the right coverage in the right places. This is what a
risk audit will will begin to open up for you. Okay,

Brad Niebuhr 39:10

so is that some of that structure is Staci going to help us with that?

Russ 39:15

You know, I'm not sure. All right, you know, your inner circle. So, you know, | mean, anytime you get into the weeds of
that and you don't want to do you just call me I’m happy to jump on a call and run run the meeting with your
advisors. I'm happy to do that. Fact. | like doing it. Okay,

Brad Niebuhr 39:32

now we're gonna fry be working on that sooner than later. So cool.

Russ 39:36
after the next syndication event, which is, you know, if you've been around since the beginning, | think Brad has, you
know, as I've been talking about that from the beginning, that this is where we were going to go, this is what we're
going to build, you know, and that's that’s where you share the vision, and then you go build it. And you do the same
thing. And with your team, you share a vision of who you are, where you're going and ask them to get on board your

bus.

oO Adam 56:45

Okay, yeah, that makes sense. | | met with Stephanie, Mike and Michelle, originally, and we went over a lot and Mike
amended my last year's return. But then | met the weldability guys and |, they were talking a lot about helping me
place, maybe more of like an accounting structure into place, because | have spreadsheets that Mike said, Wow,

those are really complex. You really know spreadsheets.

ro ) Michael Meade 57:10
Yeah. Yeah.

© Adam 57:14

So | am working with the wealth ability, guys, I'm just starting to to try to learn a little more and try to do maybe
understand all the different aspects of it a little more, but | just want to be careful to preserve relationships and stuff
because | had Mike amend my returns, but part of the weldability thing with their structuring was they do my next

year's return. So

@ Russ 57:38

yeah, | mean, it knows about you know, you're trying to figure your way. | mean, you know, you It's true, you know, you
just, especially in our clothes, the lico system, you have to be mindful. So you're wise to think about how everything
you do is perceived, | think just have, you know, straightforward conversations. It's fine. | mean, you know, | think
everybody understands everything. First of all, Tom wheelwright was here before Mike pine. And the only reason |
brought in Mike pine is because | needed somebody that would would, would be more like really, really involved in
the weed level. And Tom wasn't going to be that guy, Tom's all over the place. Tom's got his model and his vision.
And people like him, and he’s great. We have no problem with supporting a we drive people to him, because he does
a great job. So | don't have an issue with that at all. And he does have a background in education, you know,
whereas Mike is more tactical. He’s still figuring out his scalability and his business model. But he's been willing to
really be involved on the strategy teams. So but here's the thing, it’s not the business so much, because there's going
to be plenty of business for everybody. Right? One of the things | look for the litmus test in relationships, | look for a
scarcity mentality. | don't like to do business with people that have scarcity mentality, if they think win lose, if they
think the only way they get more as if someone else gets less, if they don’t think there's enough if it’s my client, my
deal, my my, my, my, my, | kind of bristle against that. Like No, we're a team the enemy isn't us. We're Wall Street is
raping people, the the financial system is fragile and threatening piece in society. And there's so many things going
on right now that just they get me so riled up. But you know, all | can do is all | can do, and that is empower
individual freedom, through financial education for effective action. It's my personal mission statement. And the way
| can lever is by working through people like you who have a desire and are willing to commit resources, time and
effort to go big. And | want to make sure that when you step out into the riskier realm of syndication to kind of get
back on point, that you have a great structure in place, that you have a great advisory team in place that you have
all of the insurance coverages that you need to be safe, that you have great access to mentors and quick answers to
problems so you can get on stock, lots of opportunities available, all the support that you need and more. And all |
ask is, you know that you participate and uphold the values support the ecosystem as best you can. But you don't
need to subordinate your own individual vision, or you know what you're trying to accomplish just to support
everybody, | think, Adam, you're gonna get big enough, there’s gonna be plenty of business school around, and you
can spread the love. And you can do that too. Yeah, that way, you don't have a single point failure, you can have a
great relationship with Mike and with Tom, or with wealth ability. So it’s not an either or, you're not there yet. Maybe
that's okay. But you can get there. Okay, | think we're gonna call that a wrap. We're past the top of the hour. And so |
think considering that Kevin didn’t show up, we held our own. He'll be on the next one. And thanks, everybody for
being a part of it. And thanks for the great questions, a great conversation. Really appreciate you and your support
and participation in the club. And hopefully we'll see most of you in New Orleans coming up. If not, then we'll see on

the next video or the next meeting. Thanks a lot. Thanks.

Brad Niebuhr 1:01:09
Thanks, everybody.
 

Yeah, | mean it's it's it's that’s deal making 101 you know, if you go on those calls with George Ross, and you just
asked him, What does it take to make a deal and he says you just have to get what everybody wants out on the
table. And then look for overlap. | mean, those are my words not his but that's basically what he says you make a
deal by trying to make everybody at the table happy or happy enough that they're willing to do the deal. That's it.
And the challenge is for most people, they only can look at the deal through what they want through what they get
or what they know. And that's why | don't like to come in with answers | like to come in with questions and | like to be
surrounded by a lot of technical experts who have the ability to answer those questions including the investors
because they know what they want and sometimes they don't even know what they want sometimes they kind of
they're just looking for a good deal | want a good deal what that was a good deal | don't good deal for what and
what's your problem right your tax problem privacy problem asset protection problem state planning problem | don't
know what kind of problem you have. | mean you know you might have multiple problems maybe we can sell more
than one of them and then the to get them to engage it’s like well let me ask you this Michael if | could show you a
way to solve two or three of your most pressing problems any reason you would want to take a look at it well no of
course | would want to look at it great well let’s keep the conversation going let's my team will get together with your
team they will have that conversation. Okay so can new guy kind of new guy not totally new remember last time he
got sean hannity haircut? Hopefully that’s not an insult. You've probably heard that before. But anyway, so what
What's your deal Ken

Ken Hosac_ 19:11

Yeah, so | have been you know, I've got my main Hosek ventures LLC and that that kind of everything rolls up
underneath it. So | have some buildings | own which are separate LLC is the all the syndicates | invest in, are under
that as well.

Russ 19:26

Is that is that? Is that a management company or a holding company?

Ken Hosac_ 19:30

Well, it’s a holding company and management. So when | set it up, this is

© Russ 19:36

then yeah, okay. You probably already understand the problem with that.

© Ken Hosac 19:40

Yeah. And so and | understand why a lot of syndicates out of the three you know, LLC set up, but I'm trying to
understand for an asset protection trust, are you putting your personal stuff in there or are you putting business like
LLC is in there as well, that's, if the answer is | need to go back and watch yesterday. I'll definitely do that. Cuz | had

a conflict and plan to but

@ Russ 20:01
it. So Kevin's an extremely patient, | told him, if you patient with me, you're gonna find out, I'm a good guy to
understand this because I'll go teach other people make your job easier. And so that's that’s what I'm doing in
exchange for that he gives us a lot of his time, but not today. So | don't know what happened. So you're gonna have
the asset protection, you're gonna have your holding company, and then your holding company can own your
management company, which is going to be your syndication business. And that management company is, you
know, | like to make that a see. attached, it's an LLC taxes to see, the reason | do that is because now | can expense,
everything | can, | can expense, my health care, | can have no deductible, | can have, you know, full reimbursement
for everything that insurance doesn't cover, | can write off the car, educational programs, you know, just on and on
and on. And it's probably the cleanest way to write something, again, not a tax guy, check it with your tax advisor.

But it's the cleanest way to write everything off. So | collect enough fees into that management company to pay for
everything | want to pay. And then to pay me enough of an income that | can qualify for loans. And | can manipulate
my income to be what | need it to be to qualify for whatever loan | might be going for, that's based on my debt to
income ratio. So if I'm planning ahead, I'm willing to pay a little bit of tax in a year that I'm building a credit profile to
be able to borrow with the idea that after | get that debt, I'm going to acquire tax breaks, which are going to, in turn
pay me back for the taxes that | paid. Okay, so you literally turn your tax into a you know, like a deposit that you
make in order to achieve a loan and then you put it back when you're done. And you have to work with your tax guy,
because the tax laws change all the time. And sometimes, you know, you can carry losses backwards. In addition to
carrying them forward, sometimes you can amend a return got to be careful in working with your loan perfect person
that you don't, you know, omit things so that you inflate your income and then bring losses back. But there are many
things we use to bring our income tax down, that are able to be considered in depreciation is one of them, that will
not be counted against your debt to income ratio. So that's the type of question you would bring to Stephanie Riley,
or the people in the lending team. But especially Stephanie, cuz she works in the one to four space where your
personal dti is matter. So you've got that management company. Now that management company is going to be the
company that runs all of the LLC that you do, which are the partnerships you set up with your individual investors,
your holding company is going to be the holding company that owns your equity, and most of the money you make
on the deals you do is not going to come from the fees you collect, it's going to come from the profit sharing you
collect, that's going to roll around your management company into your into your holding company. Now, if you
aren't collecting enough fees from the management company to meet your income and expense goals for your
management company, right, then what you can do is you can charge a fee to your holding company and bring the
money back down. Okay, okay. Now, you know, for me, | like having a holding company, for my personal investing.
Meaning, and | have a management company for my personal stuff, which is completely different from a holding
company that my investors are going to see, and the management company my investors are going to see, in other
words, | don’t need to show my investors who | am everywhere, they just need to know who | am with what I'm doing
for them, and the business I'm doing with them. So that’s why I'm an advocate of the three silos and not just the two
Okay, and you could have it terminate at the same asset protection trust so it's you're over here owning virtually
nothing, you have a living trust and personal property and whatever you need to show in order to qualify for loans
and look like a regular person for borrowing purposes and, and so on. But most of the assets are going to be owned
by the asset protection trust. And you can have this whole silo be the stuff you do personally without any exposure to
your syndication, counterparties and investors. And then you can have a separate asset protection trust for the whole
silo that is for your syndication company, or you can collapse them both. So these two holding companies both
collapse into the one, okay, go either way. And then the only other entity that you could consider setting up as is a
third asset protection trust that would would handle the equity stripping and you can do that through a third party
company that does that and Kevin has people that do that. You can set one up. And we do cover that | won't get
into that now, because we definitely did cover it last night. But I'll just say that when you hear when you hear
attorneys like Kevin, say equity stripping, they're not talking about actually taking the money out of the property,
they're just talking about putting a lien on the property. And transferring the asset goes from being equity in a
property to being a mortgage, a lien held by a trust. And we think of a mortgage or a lien as a liability. And it is to
the property to over here, but it's an asset to the trust. So all you've done is you've shifted the value of the property
from the property where it's exposed, using debt, your own debt, that you create it, to move the asset to a trust,

where it's attached from the property, that's equity stripping. And if you move it completely offshore, it's a way to

own domestic properties, but have all your equity owned offshore. And then it's also another way for you to funnel
ownership to give them what they want in all of those categories? Again, cash flow, tax breaks, privacy, preservation
of capital, growth of capital, and you know, overall return on investment. So you got to kind of look at all those
things. And then what are they most likely who's what's my demographic? Am | going after the retirement money?
Am | going after the 1031 exchange of money? Am | going after you know, stock market money where somebody may
be going to realize a gain because they got to sell an appreciated asset and move over. So you know, your tax
person is probably going to end up talking to their tax person. Your securities attorney has to make sure however
you're structuring it is going to be compliant. And then when you look at it from an estate planning asset protection
perspective, you know, that’s this is where your knowledge of estate planning comes in kind of handy, because you
want to try to understand how are they coming in? Are they coming in through a trust? Are they coming in? Is it living
trust? Is it a revocable trust, and they have an asset protection trust or a holding company underneath one? How are
they taking title. And then you just have to structure your deal in such a way that it allows them to come in and get
what they want. Now, once you've kind of got what the preferred path to do that is the next question you have to ask
yourself is how does their position in this affect the others in the group? So this is where if someone is an active
participant in a group, then the the group or the the investment may have some liability exposure to the person in
their in their role? So | think what you're going to have to do is when you look at that you just have to ask when you
create the offering. You say would we accept somebody in this position? Yes or no? What are the risks or what are
not the risks? | think for that reason, | know at one point Dave Zook was working because he saw a big opportunity in
1031 tax deferred exchange money. He got into the weeds because this is going to be my secret sauce. And then he
got into it. He goes you know this is a pain in the rear. I'm not going to do this anymore. And he didn't do it anymore.
He went after the people that have the tax problems that turned out to work even better for him. We do have a guy
Paul, | believe it's Paul Moore with wellings capital. | think it is | think it's him. And they they put together Delaware
statutory trusts, which is a way to bring 1031 money into a syndication. So | believe that we did one or two radio
shows on that topic, | think we may have a special report in the library at Real Estate guys radio.com under
Resources, special reports. And we may even have had something in the platform on that topic with Paul but
Delaware statutory trust is another another way so | can't really give you a technical answer Michael because I'm not
the attorney and | don't live in the weeds every day. What | what I'm trying to do is give you the way | would
approach the problem and asking the questions. And | think that my M.O. is is to is to look at the deal and look at
everything the deal could possibly do and bring and then | look at each party to the deal and ask what do they
need? Can the deal do it? How does it need to be structured to do it and then | look at it like okay, what are they
risking by being in the deal but what is the deal risking by having them in it and you have to kind of look back and
both sides and that's my criticism of what | call you know, run of the mill or mom and pop asset protection
everything is based on this idea that the only way of attack is to come through the entities and to get to you and
they rely very heavily upon corporate formalities the corporate veil and maybe the charging order is a deterrent and
then you're really just the insurance to settle anything but if if if if the situation is bad if the judgment if it's a jury
thing especially and it's an egregious deal for whatever it is and you get you get a judgment it's well in excess of your
insurance and they're coming after your personal assets and if they can pierce the corporate veil they have the keys
to the kingdom the asset protection trust takes that away so kind of coming back to the top of the episode for those
of you who were there last night again | encourage you to go watch that soon as we get it posted it should be any
day now | just | just uploaded the video so | know | talked a little bit there hopefully that you know made sense or

was there was structure into in what | said did did it answer your question at least as best as | can without without
Kevin?

Michael Meade 17:26

yeah | think it always goes back to the same thing with you It seems it's like what does the investor need? And so

that was refreshing to hear

Russ 17:35
in having your investors know about your own personal stuff, you're there only should be interested in what they're
doing with you. And that that's really your third silo where your syndication business resides. And all of the sub LLC is
what you create with your specific investors. Okay, so that's kind of a highlight from yesterday for those of you that
were on the call. Well, we are still waiting on Kevin, hopefully there wasn't a miscommunication. | both texted him
and emailed him. Did any questions come up for you last night, anything that | can attempt to clarify without the
benefit of having our attorney on the call? And don't be shy? | have to look around and see. | don't know, | know
Adam, you were on? I'm not sure who else is on the list. Michael mead you were on last night? You actually had a
question. So we answered it. But any questions that came out last night or any questions that you came in, to this
session on in particular with it again, I'm going to do my best to answer while I'm waiting on Kevin.

© Adam 04:43

If those no other questions, so I'm actually working with Michelle to set up the domestic asset protection. Do you
want to touch on the benefits of the Nevada asset protection trust versus the international? At what point would you
would it be worth spending The money to do the international one?

Russ 05:03

Yeah, so just so everybody knows that it within the United States, there are obviously different jurisdictions. And the |
think at the core, what we're talking about is creating an irrevocable trust. So as we talked about at the last secrets
of successful syndication, there are ultimate destinations, what | call termination points. So you have all your
frontline liabilities that can come at you, they can come at you through your holdings, or they can come at your
holdings through you. And so there's a front and a back, there's a front and a flank, if you will, you got to cover them
both way you cover them both, you get things out of your own name, and you get them into your asset protection
trust, which is irrevocable. So the two termination points are either a natural human being like you, or an asset
protection trust that's irrevocable, just like you as a citizen can choose to reside in a certain jurisdiction because it
has better tax treatment or is more favorable to do business in or whatever your asset protection trusts can decide
which jurisdiction it wants to reside in, based on similar criteria. Domestically, | think the consensus is, and again, I'm
not the lawyer, so I'm not giving you legal advice. But | just know from having worked with Kevin and been in the
space for a little bit, that Nevada tends to be the most favorable in terms of irrevocable asset protection, meaning if
somebody goes after that trust, it is mostly the lard most bulletproof and | think that has its roots in Nevada's storied
history, which was basically a state that was founded by gangsters from California who were trying to escape and
create a paradise where they could do what they want, and have privacy and in liability protection. And so a lot of
the laws are set up there to be very favorable data protection and privacy. And that's a tradition that continues even
to this day. So it’s not as good as you used to be, but it’s still pretty darn good. But once you go outside the United
States, you pick up some additional benefits. And one of those benefits is that the judgments that are won here in
the United States, or even the discovery or the whole process of going through litigation, all has to play by a
completely different set of rules, which means that the plaintiff, the predator, the attacker, is going to have to

engage counsel, learn to play those rules, if they can even find you. And it just makes it a lot more difficult. With that
said, It costs about four to five times as much money to get these things set up. So we're talking, you know, maybe
the difference between six or $8,000 domestically and maybe up $25,000 or so internationally as a syndicator. Both
of those numbers really ought to be drops in the bucket doesn't feel like that when you first start because you know,
you're, you're you're funding this out of your own savings, your own equity, and it feels like a big expense. But if you
really understand how quickly once you get your syndication set up and running, you can go raise money and, and
realize usable cash, it’s really not that much money. And the advantage of doing it, you know, right away is that it’s
done and you don't have to think about it right. If you're serious about getting big, just do it right. Go big. With. With
that said, depending on your personal budget, how quickly you're going to get your business going and how much
cash you have, you can't tie up all your cash and just building your asset protection structure, not have anything left
to form your syndication company or market or sustain yourself while you're getting launched, then it might be
Thank you. Yeah, yeah, again, this is one of the things that | wish that | would have figured out much earlier in my
career would have saved me a lot of money. Okay, so we get people knocking on the door, but they're not Kevin so
I'm pretty sure we're just going to run this thing without him. Let's see. Yeah. No response. So | don’t know it must
have been a miscommunication. He Probably | probably wore him out last night. He's like, Oh, my God was not
another one. Right? He says you don't pay me enough to be on both? No, I'm kidding. Okay, so what else? Um, you
guys are here? I'll do the best | can to answer these questions. | think I'm doing okay. So far. Yeah. No questions.
Okay, so let's just talk a little bit about, you know, kind of the team, you've probably already figured out that there's
asset protection, which is the entity structure for isolating valuable assets from liability producing activities and
assets, and people, you have insurance. And so you're going to want to have an insurance council coverage Council.
And you're going to want to have an insurance broker, commercial broker, we're still looking for people to kind of
bring into the ecosystem. So if anybody has people out there that they are super happy with, let me know, and we'd
be happy to talk to them about coming in. And in supporting the group. Those are the things we continue to work on
all of your behalf. Obviously, you have to have, you know, the the tax component, which are the seat the the
accounting component, which is to set up the books that are going to support the structure, because part of the way
you destroy your asset protection is in bad money handling, if you're paying the bills out of the wrong account. If
you're not storing the money in the right places, you're lending money or money's moving freely in between entities,
which of course, | hope, by now you guys know you should never do. You can unravel a lot of your your asset
protection. But another big component is your estate planning. And you have another layer to consider, which is
what happens if something happens to you. Right? You have this enormous responsibility to run these projects to
fruition on behalf of your investors. And if anything happens to you, what's the plan? Right is your personal stuff is
the is the management company that's running everything? Does it go into probate? does all of a sudden your 18
year old son is he running the show? Right. So | think that if you can turn this into a major strength, where you really
have a great structure, then you can go out when you're competing, and explain how much care you've taken into
setting up your structure to protect your investors interest. And if you do it right, they'll be so impressed with what
you've done, they're going to want your help and doing a better job themselves, which means now you've added
value. And you've given them more reasons to refer other people to you, you've gotten an excuse to penetrate
through them into their network of advisers and make those advisors your allies. And when that happens, then their
clients become potential clients to you. So there's just a lot of reasons why all of this makes sense. So estate planning
is different than asset protection. And of course, estate planning has some substantial tax components. So in
addition to the accounting system, you're going to want good tax strategy. Sometimes those come from the same
people, sometimes they don't. And so you know, the tax strategist is being chosen for their ability to do tax strategy,
not bookkeeping, not accounting. And most of the time, your tax schema and your asset protection schema are
going to be the two things that drive your accounting setup. So when you think about what you've what you've got
to solve for, you don't have to solve your go, | need, how do | set up my books? wrong question. Right? How do | set
up my tax strategy? And how do | set up my asset protection strategy strategy? And then the question is, is how do |
set up my books to support my tax strategy, my asset protection strategy to try and set up your books before you
have those things, it's more complicated. And you're probably going to have to go back and reorganize your books
at some point potentially, or your accounting at some point to support your structure. So if you do it in the right
order, I'm not saying if you've got it in the wrong order, or that you should stop and wait till you have the perfect
blueprint before you you know, turn over a shovel of dirt. You can kind of make it up as you go along. But the more
clear you are, you know, Stephen Covey beginning with the end in mind, the more clear your vision is, as | say, when
you have clarity, vision, strategy and tactics become evident, the less likely you're going to waste time waste money,
backtrack or leave gaping holes in your structure that are going to create problems. So that's kind of the
methodology. So again, asset protection attorney, estate planning attorney, accounting, advisor, tax strategist
insurance Yeah, and then and then. And then you layer on that the maintenance team, which is going to be your
corporate formalities, your bookkeeping, your tax preparation and dissemination. And then just make sure you time
block that you have regular touch points that you know, you're going to convene everybody and just have a overall
meeting, there could be once or twice a year, it’s expensive, but | just think it’s better get everybody in a room all at
once. And just, you know, it doesn't have to be in a room, it can be on a call, you want to be efficient, you want to be
organized, you want to be clear, get permission to record it, if you can, you know, under whatever confidentiality,

because that way, you can be fully engaged, you don't have to worry about taking notes. But that way, you just make
JO

sure that you're fine tuning as you move along. And then try not to get lost in the weeds yourself, focus on
understanding the principles. If you understand the principles, then understanding how to make strategic decisions is
easy. If you get lost in the weeds of all the little how to and this and that, you can't see the forest for the trees. I'm a
big picture guy. So | shot all those details. That's why you have team got to come up, you got to be the guy that sees
the whole thing. Remember, your job is a syndicator, you're the CEO chair, you're the visionary. If you're not the
visionary, who is the vision isn't just for, you know, the mission, the change you want to be in the world, or what what
the company looks like in terms of profit, or what your personal balance sheet, all that, you know, the vision is also
the strategic vision for how this structure is organized, and how it functions. And it's probably the hardest thing for
people like us to figure out because we like to sell, we like to do deals, you know, we like to focus on playing offense,
we don't really think about this part. But | think again, if you if you, if you will really take the time to do it early in your
career, | think that you'll find that the peace of mind, it brings you the clarity so that when it's time to act, you're not
trying to figure it out on the fly. And then you can actually turn it into a sales advantage by showing people that you
have protected them, you've thought through more risks than they have. And then it also gives you the opportunity
to, to get them referring to you and just feeling a lot more connected to you and to get some of your advisors
inserted into their lives, which just strengthened your, your relationship with your your investors in that community. So
anyway, okay, well, we don't need to take up the whole hour. Are there any other questions, any clarification on that,

or anything that came up while | was monologuing? There,

47:47

| have a quick question as your, your, the entire network that you guys have is made up of amazing people. And | find
myself getting a little lost in you know, there are so many intelligent, well educated advisors that we can meet with,
you know, from wealth ability to Mike Pine, and you have suggestions on how to pick a solid team and foundation

and maybe ones that already know how to work together. And

Russ 48:15

yeah, | mean, that's kind of like trying to pick a mate. | mean, at the end of the day, there's there is chemistry, there's
going to be people that you get along with that you click with that you feel like here you that. | mean, you know,
obviously they have to have professional chops. But if you think about the seas, you know, they have to you have to
trust them in their character, you have to trust them in their competency. You have to trust them in their capacity.
Can they take you on, you have to trust them in their compatibility, you know, or the chemistry component. So, and |
think, you know, for me, | mean, I’m out there either recruiting people who are already active or people who are
dedicated to the syndication community. Because it's its own animal tax code is complicated. asset protection is
complicated. You know, I've dismantled some of these people's boilerplate presentations, because they come in and
give the same presentation they give at Real Estate meetups or whatever. And I'm just like, No, no, no, no, this is not
that. You know, we have to meet the unique needs of syndicators. You need to retool it. That's why | kind of insert
myself into a lot of things until | feel like they get it. And I’m not saying they're not brilliant. But my point is, is just like
when | am operating in the capacity, you're talking about Adam, I'm out there trying to bring people in picking
people to be a part of this ecosystem to support all of you. These are the things that | look at. | share the culture, this
is who we are. There's no hard selling, we lead with education. There's no competition, we all collaborate. We are it's
never ever about us. It’s always about the syndicator and For the syndicator, it's never about the syndicator. It’s
always about the investor. So if we take care of the syndicator, then we by definition, are taking care of the investor, if
everybody's bought off on the culture, if you don't like our culture, there are other programs, right? | mean, we're not
trying to be all things to all people, we are who we are Robert and | were our values and our hearts on our sleeves, if
you will, in that regard. If that doesn't turn you on, it’s not a match. Well, it's the same thing when you're out there
talking about who you are, what you want to do, you know, whatever you're about in your business, if that doesn't
turn on the person that you're doing business with, you know, then then maybe they're not the right person for you,
even though it could be immensely competent. So | think that's important. And then how many of their clients do
Audio October 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on
Asset and E...

@ Fri, 10/15 9:12AM @ 1:01:12

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, syndication, asset protection trust, structure, asset protection, kevin, money, questions, deal, entity, investors, tax,

holding, trust, understand, company, business, building, team, set

SPEAKERS

Michael Meade, Russ, Adam, Brad Niebuhr, Ken Hosac

Russ 00:04

Okay, syndication, Mentoring Club, this is our October 2021, ask the mentors for legal and estate planning, really
asset protection and estate planning. And there's two parts to this. And we're waiting on our mentor, Kevin Day to
show up. But there's really two parts to this. And Part Part one is getting your own fortress setup to surround your
own assets and to be protected. And to make sure that when you go out there in the marketplace, you know where
to put things, you know how to hide things that you don't want the public to see that you know how to make sure
that you understand the risks that you're taking in conducting your business, and that you've protected yourself,
you've worked to get to a point where you have all the things that you need are the you've accumulated all that you
have, and you just don’t want to put that at risk when you go into business any more than you have to. And so a
good entity structure is part one, you lay on top of that a good insurance structure and a good accounting structure,
good practices, and you have a pretty strong structure to do business in. So we did a whole big thing on that last
night. So because depending on when you're watching this, if you're watching the replay, it's in the library. We | think
we called it industrial asset protection for syndicators. And so make sure you watch that. Do you have questions? And
you can bring questions coming out of that to this. We don't necessarily have Kevin on every month. | don't think it’s
a broad enough topic that everybody's gonna have questions every month. But But you know, we will wait as the
questions pile up, we'll we'll get them answered. And we'll certainly at least every other month, we'll get him on. So
with that said the other the other half of it is how to use it in your marketing. So when you go out into the
marketplace, and you are talking with your prospective investors, and maybe you know asking them when when you
put whatever your syndication offering is into into your portfolio. Mr. investor, how do you intend to take title Where
are you going to hold that and that'll begin to open up the conversation could be a retirement plan, which has some
asset protection features, it could be in their own name, which has zero asset protection features, it could be ina
holding company, maybe that they've set up which would have some asset protection features, or a trust could be a
living trust, it could be a revocable was the right word, not revocable. Anyway, there's another type of trust that that
is kind of like an entity and then and then a, a irrevocable trust, or an asset protection trust. And so the, the, you
know, what we covered in industrial strength asset protection is, is that you've got these silos. So silo one is going to
be your personal stuff that is just in your own name. That is kind of what a normal person would have. So when
people look at you, you look like a normal person, you can qualify for loans, and all in all, and tax breaks, then the
second silo is your personal investing. And that’s where you're going to go out and invest your own money in your
own account. But you're going to be taking on some liabilities as a result of that. And so you need to have asset
protection that's specific to that silo, but it’s going to probably want to be very private, because you're not interested
 

Well, yeah, you're gonna want to do that it’s a great question. And once you get your mind around it, | find it to be
pretty simple. Until you get your mind around it. It's like mystery, right? It's like, | don't understand this. But it's really
quite simple. Everything that's valuable, you want the ultimate ownership to terminate in the trust. Now, it could be
through a chain, so the asset protection trust could own a domestic LLC, which is a holding company. And when |
use the term holding company, for remember from secrets of successful syndication, it’s a green entity in my color
chart. In Green means it's valuable, it holds assets. But it doesn't. Sorry, just change my picture on me say something
for me Can widget just say anything? Anything right here, perfect. Thank you. Okay, switch the picture back. What
happened is, | think Adam bumped his microphone or something, and it flipped to Adam. And then I'm looking at
Adam at trying to talk to you, and I'm super visual. So that screwed me up. Anyway, so so so in my in my hierarchy or
in my the way | draw out these entity plans, green is something that holds an asset and is chased, which means it
doesn't doesn't do risky business. It's only mission in life is to do business with the entity that creates the wealth, but
also creates the liability, because investments are both liabilities and assets, they're valuable, but they bring with
them a host of liabilities, just like you do. So by creating an asset protection trust, that doesn't do any business with
the outside world, it doesn’t create any liabilities. And so that’s why it's a termination point for everything valuable to
face, the world, you put underneath it, a holding company and LLC. And that LLC is not going to do any business
with the outside world, it’s going to suck profits out of the operating companies below it, and then pass those profits
through it up to the asset protection trust. So now the asset protection trust is largely invisible, unless somebody can
penetrate deeply enough into your structure that you are required to disclose the owner of your holding company.
Now the only people who are going to demand that level of knowledge are going to be financial institutions that are

up against the know your customer regulations. But as far as the people you do business with, not so much.

Ken Hosac 22:41

So it sounds like | need to split my operations company in the holding company, and then have the asset protection
trust, basically hold the holding company.

Russ 22:50

Yeah, | would. Yeah. So so you know, again, I'm not the lawyer here. But | can tell you 99 with 99% certainty, if Kevin
were here, he would, he would basically affirm what I'm about to say. But with that said, Don't act on anything that |
say always get qualified counsel, okay. But you've already got an entity out there, that is your holding slash
operational company, it's tainted. So keep it as your operating company, and then take the assets and move them
into the new holding company. Okay, just like if you set up a living trust, you would get everything out of your own
name and put it in the name of the trust. So you could avoid probate, it’s the same thing. You're going to transfer.
You got to work with your tax people to make sure that those transfers don't trigger any type of taxation issues. But
once you get that into the holding company, oh, and the second thing is you just need to make sure you do a risk
audit. Is there anything out there within a statute of limitations period of time, that would potentially create a
clawback provision? In other words, you say, Oh, you you moved those assets, because you knew this was coming?
Right? So you just just, you know, that's what the risk audit, the call to action at the end of the session that we did
yesterday is to send an email to risk audit at Real Estate guys radio.com. And then what that does is gives you a
questionnaire that you can download from Kevin, when you fill that out, then his team will contact you and then you
get to have a complimentary consultation. What he does is he looks at your current structure, and he explains to you
where your exposures are and proposes a better structure. And I'm going to guess 99.9% of the time every one of you
are going to get proposed a better structure | promise you, not one of you has an industrial strength, what | call an
industrial strength setup, most most people don't that’s why I'm so adamant about doing this. I've been I've been
playing this game a long time. And it took me years and years and years and a whole lot of pain to figure it out. And
Kevin has been a real mentor for me in that regard and really been patient as I've learned because | | don't do things
| don't understand is why | didn't buy bitcoin. Oh, right. But | didn't do it because | didn't understand it. So, you know,
and so | don't just go spend 2030 $40,000 in an asset protection structure, | don’t understand it, | got to understand
what you do? How much of their time do they spend solving the very same problems, right? If you're the only client
that does what you do, then that means that they’re learning on your dime. And you're not getting any benefit of
them learning your what they've learned on somebody else's not. If | go hire somebody, like, you know, when | met
Mike Pyne, his primary focus was working with syndicators. |'m like, great, and he was at a place in his business
where he was willing to follow my lead, which | felt was important, because I’m architecting, this program. And then
the next thing is, was he a cultural fit? Did he care about the things we care about? Is he gonna get along with the
people that we attract? And after spending a bit of time with him, | said, Yes, so we, we introduced him in and we
started seeing, will he play well, with others, you know, the strategy squads that I'm assembling, that’s a novel
concept. In | told the guys, | go, look, this is not going to be easy, you're going to have to put in a bunch of time,
you're gonna have to cross train each other, you guys have to love each other. And if you can conquer all that, and
not get in each other's way, and really do this, we're gonna have something so unique in the marketplace, people are
gonna be lines out the door. And the barrier to entry is high, because you've got these super competent people with
giant egos that just can't, can't work together. And that is so frustrating. | know from experience that is so frustrating
as an individual client, trying to get my advisors to stop one upping each other or trying to be the smartest guy in
the room. It's like, Look, guys, can we just all get on the same page and focus on getting the problem solved. And so
that, to me, that's you're building a team. And the team has to get along with each other, and they have to get along
with you, they have to buy into the vision, it's like being a coach. And so it is not an easy task. And that's why once
you get your team figured out, man love on your team, take care of your team, feed your team, you know. And that's
super important, too, in my opinion. So that's how | approach it. And you know, we try to make sure that there's a
variety because not everybody gets along with everybody. But at the same time, especially where we're small to keep
their attention, | got to let people kind of be the only rooster in the henhouse. You know who nobody's obligated, but
we highlight the people that we feel best about that we feel fit the program best that are going to fit in with the vast
majority of the demographic, and then you guys are all free to pick and choose. But we're trying to make a pretty
compelling case that these guys already are a prepackaged team who know how to play together, and I'm working
with them on their scalability also. And because as we grow, they have to grow, or I'm going to have to bring
somebody else in to supplement that we had that issue candidly, and I'll say this to his face, if he was on the call with
Maria, Maria was a one man band who was great, but then he got | kept telling Dude, you're gonna have to scale
you're gonna have to scale and he just kept trying to do it all himself, then he got deadly sick, almost lost his life. And
not only did he almost lose his life, his business almost fell apart. Because he realized quickly, man, I'm a one man
band, and my family's got nothing if | go down. Yeah. So now he’s out there building a business. And he’s really
building a business to scale. And that's great. Because this whole thing is about all of us individually, and collectively,
going bigger, faster. And you cannot do that without scaling and good modeling. Because if you don't have proper
structure and good modeling, the bigger it gets, the weaker it becomes. If you have good structure and good
modeling, the bigger it gets, the stronger it becomes. And | know because I've done it the other way where you grew
it, and we literally just grew so fast, it had so much success. It all imploded under its own weight, because we didn't
have the right leadership. We didn't have the right culture. We didn't have the right the systems we didn’t have the
right structure. We didn't have we just didn't have any of that in place. And the choke points are always the
entrepreneur that you guys are individually going to be the choke point, the hardest thing in the business is to
replace yourself. | think about what I'm up against. Right now, we've got a whole team, my kids work in our company,
or adjacent to the company, if Robert and | go down in a plane crash, right? Where's the front end of this thing? I've
got a very good friend and a very similar business to sitting on his deathbed right now. And it's tragic. And it
happened very quickly. And you know, so but but we have it, we have a plan and a strategy to have this thing carry
on without us. That's why we're building community leaders. That's why this thing literally will outlive Robert and |, if
we build it properly. And that's what we're doing. Because you guys are all a lot younger than me, right? And so I'm
going to, I'm going to try to keep up I'm going to try to stay young at heart and young and health, and live as long as
| can and be around to see this thing | want to see hundreds of billions of dollars coming out of Wall Street coming
into Main Street, | want to see every one of you become Dave Zook on steroids that would nothing would make me
happier. But the reality is | could get sick and die tomorrow. Right? And so we got to get this thing set up so that it'll
be here for you. Because you're investing in it, too. | mean, | think it’s a screaming deal. And you're getting a lot of
ROI right away. But this is the founders program, you guys are letting us figure this out on your dime, you know, this

in the beginning. And you know, we're almost We're almost to where | feel like it's time to double the price. Maybe
money offshore, because you can debt service offshore. So there's all kinds of things you can do in these structures to
protect equity to create privacy, to dictate when your tax year is going to come for each of the individual entities. So
you can move money between entities, so you can control which entity is going to pay how much tax when which
jurisdiction is going to pay it in, you can get pretty sophisticated. Always do it with counsel, because if you get too
sophisticated, you screw up the opinion of the wall, right? But But if you do it right, | mean, you're using the system,
the way it’s written, you're not breaking the law, you're using the law, there's, there's a difference is that all the big
companies do that. But obviously it doesn't, there's no point in going to all this effort if you can play small. The
reason this is important for syndicators, because if you're gonna play big, then the expense of the team and the
expense of the infrastructure and learning the procedures and get everything set up, is amortized over the size of
everything that you're going to do. If you're just going to do small deals, and it's a big burden on all of that, if you do
big deals, it’s a small bird, you might have to do a few small deals in the beginning to kind of just get your confidence
up. Personally, I'd rather work on a big deal with an experienced person and get my confidence up that way. But
that's me, just depends on your, your your market, your brand, and how comfortable you are, you know, coming out
of the gates and trying to do a three or $4 million raise versus, you know, five or $600,000 rate Dave Zook started
with small raises. So I'm not saying you have to start big bread, some rock started a little bit bigger ditches on but
the quicker you get your mind around going big. The more all of this starts to really make sense and be be cost
justified. Okay, so | kind of waxed on a little bit about that. Hopefully that was clear. Any questions about anything
that we've covered up to this point, especially those of you that were on the webinar last night? Okay, well, I'm either
dazzling you with brilliance or baffling you with the other stuff. Okay, so what else? This is for you guys? I'm not
gonna answer Ben's question, because it's a really long question. And | can tell that, that we need Kevin to answer it.
Something obviously went wrong. And any basic questions about any of this?

Brad Niebuhr 33:32

| got a question. Yeah. So at what point do you think | should get by CPA and my asset protection person, the other..
so for our for, for instance, Emily and | situation we're going to be in December, is we're going to take our last
paycheck out of our electrical business, and switch over to getting paid from our syndication business. So | want to
make sure we're like, like you said earlier, make sure we're pulling it out of the holding company, we've got so many
LLC, | want to make sure that we're coming out of the right, LLC, which whatever, whichever one day set up as a
holding company for us. So |, at what point do you think we should have one of Kevin Dya's guys and our CPA, get
together?

Russ 34:26

Yeah. So that's a great question. And the answer is going to be | think, probably obvious, especially because of what
you do, what you know how to do. But at what point would you want to have the electrician and the framer of the
building connected?After it’s built? Right now, you know, with the, the what, what you're going to have is you're
gonna have three teams, you're going to have your your design team, your architecture team. These are the people
who are going to strategically organize this Those who are going to be your high level people, like you'll talk to Kevin,
but then he'll probably dish to one of his attorneys to actually do the work after you've done the architecture, which
they did. | mean, they they already did, that's exactly what happened. So you're going to have, you're going to have
your architectural team, your design team, you're going to blueprint it, then what you're going to do is you're going to
implement it, you're going to build it, and then after that, you're going to operate it. And you don't want to and this is
true in all aspects of your syndication business, the mistake that | made many times in my career is | didn't
understand the difference, | would hire people to operate a system that | had not yet created. And then | would give
them the task of operating it, but they weren't. They weren't architects are given the task of architecting. And they
weren't architects. And so they would flounder. | mean, smart people, like MBAs really smart people. But they'd
worked in big corporations where somebody had already built the machine, and they knew how to operate the
machinery at a high level, they really, really good at it, you hand them the assignment of building the machine. Last
smarter to take the less expensive path. And Kevin has a way of putting provisions into that asset protection trust in
Nevada that allows you later to convert it into an international trust. And so I'm not going to pretend | know what the
the secret sauce is. But | know it can be done because | I’ve talked to many times and and about how that happens.
So Adam, Did that answer your question the best | could?

@® Adam 09:16

Yeah, | think it answered it for me. And | like | said I've kind of talked a little bit before | just thought that was one
thing last night that could use a little bit of clarification.

© Russ 09:24

Okay. Yeah, | mean, it’s really it comes down to a business decision, you know, what you're doing is you're
compromising the ideal your ultimate destination based on what you're actually capable of doing in the here and
now. You know, so it's a cash flow decisions business decision. Some | mean, having an asset protection, trust in
Nevada is better than not having one at all. And the international just gives you that additional coverage, that it's
more private and much more difficult to penetrate. For a domestic issue, which is probably where almost every
buddies issues are going to arise, both because we mostly do our business domestically. And because this is the most
litigious society on Earth, the United States of America. So okay, Michael Mead, you have a question. So you can
unmute yourself and lay it out. And I'll do my best. And again, | apologize. | don't know where Kevin is, maybe there's
some confusion, obviously. Hopefully, it’s, he’s fine, but we'll just keep winging it. And if | run out of gas, and I'll let you
know,

© Michael Meade 10:29

this might turn into a multi faceted question. But how do you recommend limited limited partners enter into a
syndication? And does that differ by asset class with the risk associated with asset class, like | think, some of Zooks, |
think I've heard he, he wants you to come in as an individual. But does that put the partnership in any risk of
potential liability, because of that individual being the partner?

& Russ 10:56

Okay. So there's, it is multifaceted, because most of the time when people are putting they're taking possession of or
taking title to a share, and whatever it is you're doing, they're doing it to solve a problem. Part of it is ROI. Part of it
could be privacy. Part of it could be preservation of capital. For most people, it’s growth of capital, in some cases, tax
breaks. So you have to take into consideration all of those things in the structure. The other thing is you have to
consider is where's the money coming from, if the money is coming from an IRA, that's different than if it’s coming
from an individual. And if the individual is coming out of a 1031, tax deferred exchange, then going in as an entity or
buying shares in an entity is not going to work, they have to come in as a tenant and comment, and it still could be
considered a security, Mauricio would tell you, | believe, because if they are giving you the money, and it’s under your
control, and the return on investment is 100%. In your control, even though the structure is that they're an owner, a
direct owner as a tenant in common. For all intents and purposes, it’s a security because they don't have any say. So
your tenant in common agreement can restrict them and their their power to make decisions. And if your agreement
is structured properly, it should be that way. Because otherwise, you will lose your mind trying to herd the cats and
get votes, you know, and the entire deal can be locked up by one t IC who doesn't want to play. So you have to kind
of check off all those boxes. And this is where you play as a team, you know, the first thing you have to do is you
have to look at your deal and ask yourself, What can this deal provide various investors? How can | structure the
