looking into it, | know other people have done that, where you get your, it's going to be a state thing. Because if
you've got less than $100 million in assets under management, it's a state issue. So you could get your investment
advisory license, and then hang your license under a broker dealer that allows you to do that. So again, the
compensation goes to a broker, and the broker will then split that fee with you. Both of those options are not great.
So most people rely on the exemption to that broker registration. And that exemption is generally referred to as an
issue or exemption. But in order for that to happen, usually you're a co GP in the deal, but at the very least, number
one, you are substantially involved in the deal, you're not just raising money, you're actually getting paid for doing
those substantial duties. So whatever the compensation is coming your way, you need to be able to prove and justify
that it wasn't for raising the money. But it was because of insert something here, your primary role needs to be that
substantial duty, your primary role cannot be raising money. And the last one is you can never ever, ever get paid
transaction based compensation because transaction based compensation is really the hallmark of broker activity.

So basically a commission a commission, so hey, if | raise a million dollars for you, you pay me 3%.

Russ 53:31

Or even if you take it in equity, it’s not just a cash payment,

Mauricio 53:35

times | see it as an equity. So hey, | raise a million dollars, you give me 5% of the GDP, or if | raise a 10 or $2 million,
you give me 10%, that's not allowed. It pay me a commission and clearly is not allowed. So it makes it really, really
difficult. So the only way you could really do it with this handshake is you've got to insert yourself, kind of like the JV
discussion we just had, you have to make do be actively involved in some capacity that's substantial, which | know is
a very vague term. And what does that mean? But essentially, they want to see that once you've closed, the raising of
the money part, how involved are you still in the project? What are you doing in the project post close to if it’s a
development deal? What is your involvement in the development? Are you | don't know you the architect or you
everything I'm not a huge can knows a lot more about development? | do. But all those things that developer needs
to do, what are you doing at those that you can justify the fee that you're receiving? Maybe it’s a construction man,
maybe the construction manager, but you have to you have to have some substantial duties, and that is really what

you're getting paid for not raising the capital.

Russ 54:35

Yeah, and for us, what we've done when we get into these situations is you have to get the securities counsel for the
the person who has the deal, and you have to you have to bring in your own and you guys have to work together to
figure out how to structure the deal so that it fits both sides. Usually there's you know, a fair amount of investment in
getting all that done. So you only want to do it if the deal or the relationship as such. to scale and you're serious
about doing it at a big scale where you can get an ROI on that upfront investment. And they have to be willing to do
it too. They have to value what you're bringing enough that they're willing to go through that hassle. If you're trying
to do this deal to work yourself in to where you have something on your resume, or you're adding value in bringing
the relationship, just be cognizant that getting you in that position, if you're the one who's trying to do it, for your for,
you know, primarily for your own business interests, you know, you may chase the prospect away, because they're
like, hey, this isn't worth the hassle, | don't need you that badly. In which case, if you know, you may want to just in
turn or do something else, or, | mean, so anyway, we could go on and on. But the point is, is every deal is going to be
individual, you're gonna have to work it out on both sides. It's not just you, it’s not just them, it’s both of you working it
out together. We have certainly been through some of those Mauricio has sat in on some of those. But you don't
want to do it for a small deal. It's just not worth the time. Everything is easier when you go bigger, it doesn't seem like

it. But it actually it is you can talk to bigger money, people, you can hire bigger money help, it's worth your time to
Russ 23:10
Oh, yeah. Yeah. So but but that is really a great question, Brad, but maybe just explained to people a little bit about

how securities laws kind of two faceted state and federal, and then get into that.

Mauricio 23:24

Yeah, that's a great question. | think I've got some, some some, some answers. But not, you know, it’s a great
question. So yeah, so big picture, the securities laws. First of all, the securities laws are extremely, you know, | was
draw that circle on the on the, at the event that the syndication event, | mean, securities laws is a broad topic as well,
right. It includes the stock market, and it includes, you know, mergers and acquisition, | mean, includes all this stuff,
we play in a little bit of a little subset of securities law, which is really private offerings, and specifically, really, most of
us real estate, private offerings. And so that’s regulated by by reg D and the 33. Act and 34. Act. That's generally
federal law. The reason we picked these exemptions that we've been talking about 506 B or 506 C, or if any of you
have done the reggae, the reason we like those exemptions is because they they do preempt the states, meaning we
don't have to worry about the individual statutes and state laws of each and every single state that you're in, we can
rely at the federal level. So as long as we're complying with those exemptions under the federal rules, we're generally
good. Now, there are other aspects, which | think is where Brad, just having worked with Brad, | think, | know kind of
the direction he’s going. There are other aspects of securities laws worse the states do come into play, for example,
the whole issue of whether you need to register as an investment advisor, for example, there's certain scenario
certain structures, primarily when you're doing a sub syndication, meaning you're you're raising money into your own
syndication with the sole purpose of investing in somebody else's syndication, when you go into that world, in
addition to everything that we usually talk about, you know, what what's your exemption, right? 506 B 506. See, you
at that point are an investment advisor. And we have to look at the specific state. And the reason | know this is
where | think part of where Brad’s going is because Bradley is in the People’s Republic of Washington, which is right
next to the People’s Republic of California. But on this topic, Washington is actually worse than California. And so
Washington basically prohibit not prohibits you requires you to register as an investment advisor with the state, and
there really isn’t a good exemption for us to rely on like most states. And so in that sense, Brad, there is a website that
| will somehow get to you, and maybe I'll just send it to membership, or I'll send it to you. So I'll send it to membership
as well. And I'll send it to you. And it's from an attorney that we you know, that's not my area of expertise, investment
advisory stuff. So | associated with an attorney, he’s got a great website, great website in general. And then one of
his thing he literally did a summary of every single state and kind of a summary of the exemption rules of each state.
So you can kind of at a quick glance, take a look at least have a kind of a ballpark idea of how how severe the
requirements are for the exemptions. And just for everybody else, you know, most of the time the exemptions for I'll
give you a couple examples, and it'll give you some context. Dave Zook is always happy because the state of
Pennsylvania which where Dave lives, basically, as long as you're just doing less than 15 of these deals, these sort of
sub syndications, you're good, the state of Pennsylvania doesn't, doesn't care and you can, you don't have to register
as an investment advisor. So Dave's good. If people are from Texas, their main limitation is you can only accept
accredited investors only into the sub syndication. So as long as you're doing that, and then you file a form, no big
deal. Then there's other states like Massachusetts, that require not only do they need to be accredited, but they have
to be $2 million in net worth as opposed to million dollars. So that really kills you. And | think in Washington Brown, |
forget, if you looked at it a few, | think you have to be a qualified individual or qualified investor, which means you
have to have $5 million in investable assets, meaning all of your investors into your deal need to have $5 million in
assets investable assets in order for you to qualify under the exemption, which is obviously not realistic. And | think it
really is targeted towards hedge funds. So that that summary of all 50 states, if that's a factor, then you can look at
Hey, what is Texas look like? Here's a summary. Here's Florida summary here is whatever. So that's a good one for
that area. The other area that | think would be important would be on the asset protection side, right? | mean,
clearly, if you live in a strong asset protection state, like a Nevada or Wyoming or Delaware, but of those three, | think
@ Russ 47:45

think there's another part to it that we just have to be aware of, you have to understand what this program is, right?
If you want to go run a lemonade stand, you probably don't have to get a permit from the health department. Right?
Technically, you should. And you've read the stories about the cops that come by and find the little kid who's running
the lemonade stand, because technically, it's covered by the law. But but most people just look the other way
because nobody cares. But this is not about this program is not about you doing a deal here a deal there. This is not
about this is about building a serious, credible syndication business, it's managing hundreds of millions of dollars.

And if you're going to do that, then you have to do everything right, then you have to be in the habit of doing
everything, right. And then somewhere down the road when you big and someone goes and looks into your past and
found that there was a time where you weren't doing everything, right, that can be a problem. So you know, not that,
not that if you've done things wrong in the past, you're you're disqualified from playing in the future, it doesn't work
that way, unless you you know, have some type of conviction or are barred in some way. But But if you're if you're
serious at this stage of the game, if you're serious about building a credible professional syndication business, which
is what this program is about, then you need to be aware, and you didn't need to start thinking about playing this
game, like I'm a pro, not like I'm an amateur just out there messing around in the marketplace. And | think they come
back and understand basic definition because you know, lawyers talking, they have all their talk, but it really comes
down. Either the person is active or they're passive. If the if the money comes in, and they're passive, it's a security. So
the question is, is how do you make them active? When you have a small group of people can like you have, you
have to say, Okay, what do they know how to do that needs to be done? And what could we pay them to do that so
that we have a business relationship that shows that they're active, now that they're active, okay, they're active, and
how do we contractually limit them, so that you still have control over the deal, or the majority of the control over the
deal where they can do their function, which qualifies them as being active, but at the same time, it doesn't give
them more control than you'd like them to have so you can still run the deal. So there are ways to get it done. And
you're still going to spend some time and money to Figure out how to do it. And then you just have to do the math
and go, is it cheaper just to create a ppm? Let them be passive? Or is it going to take more time and hassle and
money for me to figure out how to make them active? That's a business decision once you have all the variables, but
ultimately, you know, you want to be in the habit of preparing professional, private placement memorandums, doing
everything to scale with the idea that it's not always just going to be two investors just gonna be 20, it's going to be
200. How am | going to operate when that happens, and everything you're doing when you're small, is designed to
be the prototype or the template if you've read the E myth by Michael Gerber, for what you're going to do when
you're big. Okay, so anyway, that that's some philosophy in there some business stuff, some legal stuff, but that’s
that's kind of a lot of stuff in there. All right. So | want to go ahead and take Mark chases he's not on but | want to,
since he took the time to pre submit, I'll read his question, then Scott will flip back to you. Assuming we have time, so
Mark j says, | have a handshake relationship with a person developing a retirement community, it looks like he will
allow me to help raise some or all of the money for his deal. | want to make sure | can be compensated for my work
without breaking any securities laws. Is this possible without being a GP? And how should | proceed? Okay, so
doesn't matter that it’s a retirement community. You got the headship shake relationship, which is, you know, that
that's one issue, raising money. But | think the core of the question ratio is, how do you get paid for raising money in

somebody else's deal?

© Mauricio 51:34

Yeah, the question is, is it possible? And the short answer is yes, it’s possible although very unpractical, so let me just
back it up a little bit and go through the rules again. Generally speaking, in order to get compensated to raise money
for other people, you need to be a licensed broker dealer, which I'm guessing most of the time, nobody is. Ross and |
looked into this probably, what 1518 years ago, and it turned out, it's super expensive, and the compliance is just a
nightmare. So | don’t think registering as an as a broker dealer is really an option. So the other way, you could do it
as become a registered investment advisor, which may be a little bit more realistic, as we've talked about Dave Zook,
the most important things that you're protecting are going to be your database, your relationships. And if people
start soliciting people they've met through you, to effectively circumvent you for future opportunity. A non
circumvention agreement is often going to only be valid or or considered to be the context is it's for the deal at hand.
But a non solicitation is the the deal source, the deal flow, the deal developers, whatever it is, right, it's a broader. So |
like having | like having non solicitation in there too. And again, you know, it’s not like you're going to go to court over
it. If you really think the deal is gets is so tempting, or there's so much at risk, then you're going to want to put in a
liquidated damages clause, I'll give you the amateur description of what the liquidated damages clause, but
basically it says, hey, look, we're not going to discuss this, you know, we're not going to haggle over what the damage
is, we're agreeing at the front end, if you violate this agreement, it's 100 grand, right? It's 100 grand, so we're not
going to go into mediation and haggle about it, it's 100 grand, okay, and you put that in obviously, that that all said,
Wow, this is this is serious. And that can be a test too. Because again, but at least it’s one more thing that you're not
going to fight about. And you might put those in agreements where you feel like there's more at stake. With that said
this, since we're on this topic, and this is just what happens when you do have a dispute, you're probably going to
want to have a mandatory mediation clause. So that the difference between you know mediation, there's a
negotiation where you just have a conversation, and you try to work it out. There’s a mediation, which is where you
have a third party, like person sit there, and listen to both of you and help you work it out like a therapist, right, you're
not obligated to do what they say, but they help you get you know, off each have your own high horses and come
together and get a deal done. If you can't get it done in a mediation, then you can go to an arbitration, and those
can be mandatory probably should be or binding. And a binding means that whatever the the usually retired judge
decides is what you agree to go with. So it’s like going to court but the big advantages, it's a hell of a lot less
expensive, and it's private. | almost never will get into a deal where litigation is an option. So there should be a

waiver of litigation, binding arbitration, and then you have to establish jurisdiction, which means Where do you want
to have this litigated or arbitrated if you choose to do it, and all of those things need to be in all of your basic
agreements, including your non disclosures. So with with all of that hacked legal advice, are illegal commentary for
me where | don't give legal advice because I'm not a lawyer. That's why we have a lawyer. But what say you Mauricio
on cleaning that up?

Mauricio 40:07

Yeah. I'll clean that up a little bit. And then I'll just go back to the general point about the NDA. Yeah. | mean, the
only the only supplemental comment there is on the liquidated damages. You're agreeing to the damages portion
only so you still have to haggle over was there a breach? Did you violate whatever, but then once that decision has
been made, we don't have to move forward to sort of what's the damages phase, we've already agreed that if a
judge or somebody agrees that | had a duty, | violated the duty | breached the contract or whatever, that still needs
to be litigated. But then the, the dollar amount, we actually just sent out an NDA, this exact template I'm going to
share with you guys a couple weeks ago. And another thing that it’s interesting with the NDA is that you typically not
like you just mentioned, you might get some pushback, they might be like, Oh, you know, you know, and then that
might that might also trigger some red flags. So for example, they may say, Hey, | already know all these people that
you claim, you know, that we're trying to protect your investors, whatever | already put, most of these people are
already on my, on my list. And so that that gives a little bit of a window of what they're thinking or what angle
they're looking at. So that's another great thing. | also have a non compete in there. Although, again, another
relating to Brad's thing. Non competes are also state by state, some states like California really don't like non
competes, and they're not really enforceable. So just because you have it in a contract doesn’t mean it's going to fly
just like liquidated Matic liquidated damages, they have to be reasonable, | mean, that there are ways to get around
that on the liquidated damages. You know, if you're doing a deal and you want to put a $1 billion liquidated damages
bar, it's probably not going to work. But | also have a non compete just to make sure that you're you know, if you
introduce them to either relationships or or introduce them to a project, that they're not gonna then you know, go
compete for that. Even if it's not that specific project. Maybe it's a marketplace that you're looking at right now.
Somebody's gonna go try and buy everything else up in that neighborhood that you've been looking at. So that’s
another thing | like to put in there.
 

Russ 41:53
Yep, good stuff. Okay, so Ken new guy. Ken the new guy. You got a question? Hey, thanks.

Ken Hosac 41:59

Yeah. So I'm a I'm a real estate developer. And I'm interested in exploring kind of syndication as a way to raise money
for larger projects I've been investing in, you know multifamily syndications. And | specifically went to the syndication
summit, that was the first event | went to, and joined SMC just to try to explore this this concept, but for the those are
for future projects. But the project I’m doing right now, which is just kind of getting off the ground, is probably going
to have just me and maybe one other equal partner, and then maybe one or two money, guys, and I'm just trying to
understand, you know, at what point do you need to go into kind of the higher order, you know, these kind of the
SEC, that the B and the C versus just putting together an LLC with GP and LP? And

Mauricio 42:47

yeah, great, great question. And | know it's like drinking from a fire hydrant, or a fire hose when you go to the
syndication event is so much info, but one of the things we talked about is just keep in mind that that definition of my
kind of layman's definition of a security because that'll guide you as to whether you're issuing securities, or are you
really doing a joint venture. And | think the day two | talked about the fact you don't really get to make that decision,
right? It’s either a joint venture, or it’s a security, you don't get to pick one or the other, you could change your facts,
not to change your tax but to change your securities thing. But the bottom line is that a security happens anytime
you take money from investors, where the returns are generated by your effort. So if you're the one generating all the
returns are you and your partner, it sounds like you're a partner 5052. I've heard you guys, there's two guys here that
are doing all the work and doing the development. So great, you guys are generating return one of these other two
quote unquote, money people doing if they’re just writing you a check, and then going home, and you're going to
generate the return and send them send them checks home, that's going to be a securities offering, even if it’s just
really one investor. So again, you don't get to pick that so you the scenario you just gave me that's a security. Now
the way you change your facts would be like, Okay, well, is there a way that we can set this up so that the returns are
not being generated by just the two of you, but instead, the returns are generated by all four of you. So now it's sort
of a four person partnership or a five person partnership, that would be a true joint venture, but they would have to
be doing more and maybe a lot more depending on how much money they're giving you than just writing a check

and sitting in on meetings and so that’s is the definition of a security so if you have passive investors, you're going to
have to then say, Okay, I've got a security now what? Well, now we've got to either register that security, we've got to
find that exemption or it's illegal. And again, it doesn’t mean we have to go do a huge, you know, ppm and crazy
stuff either because with only two investors, if they're accredited, for example, depends on how long you know them.
Maybe we make a decision along with your EDA with your securities attorney to be making that decision do i do i
feel comfortable enough with these two investors that | don't give them the full blown ppm which isn't technically
required, because I’m trying to save a few bucks. And that's that’s another? What what's your what's your what's your
motivation? behind this? Are you just trying to save the 15? grand? And it's to avoid the securities laws? Or is there
some other reason you're trying to do that? So it's a conversation. But again, you don't get to make that decision.
The way you describe it, it's a securities offering. So then | would try and like we always say, if you want better
answers, you've got to ask better questions. So the question would be how do we structure this in such a way? Or
what are my options of structuring this in such a way that this does not become a security? Maybe it’s a loan secured
in first position, maybe it’s a short term, | don't think it's probably not a short term loan with a developer, but let's just
start thinking about how do we structure this to get around and make it not a security? Because the way you

describe it, it's definitely a securities offering.
Michael Meade 11:00

Oh, yeah, I'm trying to | think my question was, if you are, how do you legally drum up interest in your syndication

that's soon to come on board when you haven't filed any sort of exemption yet?

Russ 11:16

Okay, well, I'll hit it, like from the marketing perspective, and then Mauricio, we'll clean it up on the legal perspective.
He's going to talk about things like conditioning the market. But there are things that you can talk about, remember,
the essence of, of developing interest in anything is building trust. And trust comes in two important factors, ethics,
and professional competency. And you never do yourself a favor by touting your own ethics. But if you can associate
with things and organizations and show yourself in such a way, that that you have good professional credibility, as
an honest, professional person, those are those are good things. The other part of it is is your professional credibility,
or competency. You can be talking about the team’s people, you work with events you've attended, degrees, or
certifications you've achieved, things like that you're painting a picture of who you are, and in what you're doing. And
then there's the other part is your investment thesis, which is why real estate, what's going on in the economy? Why a
particular asset class or financing structure can kind of make sense. And when you start to get further into the weeds
than that, then you start getting into a situation where you're conditioning the market. And I'll toss them Mauricio for
the rest of that.

Michael Meade 12:41

Mauricio, Can | jump into clarify? Specifically, if you have a Neil say, you know, you need to raise 5 million for an
apartment? How do | start having those conversations with my potential investors? Hey, I've got an apartment deal
coming up soon. | understand that Russell, clearly what you said about the ethics and the trust, but how to get some
statistics and but this is coming on board. | can't yet tell you the details. But it’s coming.

Mauricio 13:03

Is this because you have it under contract? Are you just looking at it is under contract? It's in the contract? Okay. For
me Why? Yes. So what | always said | was going to, you know, Russ obviously does a great, amazing job at the
syndication event, talking about sort of the the needs, you know, the milk and cereal, right, you're always raising
capital, you're always looking for deals. And that’s what you do all the time. Actually, that's Robert, not me. But oh,
that's Robert. Okay. So that so the serial thing, you're always you're always looking | do

Russ 13:30

do a great job, just not.

Mauricio 13:34

But so you gotta be a little bit. So | always recommend that once you're under contract, as soon as you're under
contract, you want to be reaching out to your securities counsel, because that's when you're going to start mapping
out the plan or the strategy for the rest of the timeline between now that you've gotten in the contract. And at some

point, you're going to close? What's the strategy? What's the timeline looking for? You know, because, for example,
you've crossed that line, and you can't meet somebody after that. And then, and then, you know, call that a pre
existing relationship. The C status takes all that away, it just limits your ability to bring people on board who aren't
accredited. So there's pros and cons, which is what the debate was all about. | think generally speaking, most of us
prefer C, even though | think, | think B won the debate, Brad some rock does, all of his stuff is B. But that’s because
he builds a great big network of people that he has pre existing relationships with. And he doesn't let anybody get
into any new deal until he’s already developed that substantive relationship. So it's a big part of your marketing
strategy, is understanding how you're going to comply. And those are some of the decisions that you need to make
early in your syndication career. And so that debate, | think you'll find a good one and useful and | think that when
you have a chance to get in conversations, one of the things you want to ask other syndicators, are they going be are
they going see? If so why or why not and hear what they have to say. And then you can pick the path that you think

is going to be best for you. So anything you want to tag on to that Mauricio before we move on to the next question?

Mauricio 18:55

No, | think that was a great debate that we did. And | think one of the one of the things I’m seeing a lot that you
want to be really, really careful about is just make sure you do in fact have that substantive relationship with with
everybody on your list. | think that's the weakest link. Brad, as you mentioned, does an amazing job because he’s got
a he's got a specific system. And he’s got a events that he puts together and he gets to know everyone. But we all
know and Russ and | definitely get emails all the time about this, where we're we meet people at conferences, or
webinars or what have you on Facebook, social media, and then literally a week later, we get a pitch from that
person to get to invest in a deal. We don't we don't usually don't even remember who the person is, let alone have a
substantive relationship with them.

Russ 19:36

Well, it's always a very personal email to undisclosed recipients.

Mauricio 19:41

So that’s to me, that's the dangerous is when you suddenly have a list of you know, 1000 2000, or even hundreds and
hundreds of people. Do you really have a substantive relationship with all those people? And | think that's kind of the
weak link here. But assuming you do, and you've either gone through the process of there’s a specific process which
we don't need to go into here, but there’s a process says that you go through to to establish that subsequent
relationship before you put them on that mailing list and then offer them a future deal. | think a lot of people are just
meeting people somehow getting them on a list, maybe not segregating the list, and then suddenly blasting out a
506. b, with many, many people that they really don't know very well or at all.

Russ 20:18

Yeah, that's where that's where clubs and outings and things that you do socially, where you can prove that you were
there together. You know, we had a mentoring club for the longest time investor mentoring club, and we had a date
that they signed and joined and it was dated, and everybody knew. And so if the deal came along after that, yeah,
we had a substantive relationship. Brad does the same thing. We do the firearms training, you know, you go you
spend four days at a firearms trainings pretty clear, hey, we got to know each other here. We spent four days
together, we've gotten together, we've talked several times since deal came in after the fact could be golfing, could
be vacationing could be you know, you pick something you enjoy doing. | think Stacey was out the other day, and
they were scuba diving. And they ended up on boats with like two days with people turned out to be investors and
WILIUVV LIITUL WUS LIID TU Linnhiy LIIUeL veuUuUYyrlit nly Cys: AADIU SV TE LUTIN Wore yvvuu.

Russ 08:05
Okay, good. Then Michael Meade, it looks like you joined the party. So thanks for coming. You had submitted a

question. So you got Mauricio, you got me. Go ahead and ask your question

Brad Niebuhr 08:14

address real quick before you ask question was that | don’t see anything on the calendar that Kevin day thing on the
12th you're talking about?

Russ 08:21

It may not be on the calendar, but there’s been emails going out. So hit membership up and ask them, okay, in fact,
if you can do me a huge favor, and just send an email to membership at syndication mentoring club.com and ask
them to put the October 12 event on the platform calendar,

Brad Niebuhr 08:36
I'll do that right now.

Russ 08:37

That was just an oversight. And that’s probably because I'm moving at the speed of, I'm moving fast. And a lot of
stuff going on right now. Thank you for bringing that up. Okay, it's gonna be like 90 minutes. So it’s gonna be you
know, plenty of presentation time, live q&a. Just all about asset protection structures, even if you think, Hey, | don't
need asset protection, | can't imagine why you would think that but even if you thought that, you're it’s a great
opportunity to get into these discussions with your investors, because your investors often don't have very good asset
protection. And they don't even know what they don't know like a lot of you, that’s why we cover it. But the point is,
when you bring it up, you're adding a lot of value. And the people who care about protecting assets are people that
have assets. And so when you begin bringing value to people that have assets, well then those are the types of
people you want to get into relationship with. and so this is just another way to get them connected to your team.
Whether you're using Kevin in his firm or your own firm, but this at least bring you up to speed in terms of just
understanding the subject matter. And | think right now because you know, of course we didn't time this it just turned
out to be great timing but with this offshore entity, controversy floating around in the news, | think some celebrity or
pop star is just been accused of Doing something nefarious, because they, because they have an offshore entity is is
is it’s in, it's in the news. And so you can use this now to bridge into conversations with people who may have seen
that. And, you know, probably don't want to start the conversation until after you've been on the October 12 call. And
it'll be available in the platform for a syndication mentor and we're gonna, we're gonna we're inviting syndication
seminar alumni and SMC members, but the SMC members are the only ones that are gonna have access to the
recording after the fact. So you'll be able to go back and review it. Okay, so Enough said on that, thanks for bringing
that up, Brad. So Michael Meade says that he now it’s not. I’m not I'm not muting you. Because everybody else is able
to unmute. | can ask you to unmute. Let me try. But | think | think you probably Yeah, there you go. You are you were

just on your wrong microphone. Okay. Yeah, go ahead.
© Russ 01:33

why you think after all this time, you would No.

© Mauricio 01:38

No, you know, the only thing that | was found interesting is just a little bit of a nugget is that | was there was an
article in the Wall Street Journal a couple days ago with the SEC Commissioner, Gensler, who's known as a pretty |
want to say is anti Wall Street has been kind of known as kind of a regulator used to be the regulator at the CFTC
the Commodities Futures Trading. Anyway, he made a comment. He testified before Congress over some
subcommittee, and he made a comment about wanting to facilitate capital formation. Just kind of like a throwaway
comment somewhere there. But you know, that kind of kept my hopes alive about this, you know, this proposed rule
that's floating out there about finders, which | know there was one question submitted kind of related to that. So we'll
talk about it a little bit. But | was trying to dig in some more detail. But that's all he said that he wanted to kind of
help small companies raise capital. And so that was very bullish in my mind, for the proposed rule that’s been
floating out there for almost a year now that nobody knows whether they're going to take up or if they're just going
to let it go, or what the position is of the SEC. So | thought that was a little bit encouraging. But that’s the only thing
I've really seen since the last call.

© Russ 02:45

So how does that fit in with, you know, this move to restrict the ability of private placement to be placed into IRAs.

Hey, if you're just joining us, do us a huge favor and mute yourself if you're not talking. Thanks.

© Mauricio 03:02

Yeah, | know that whole IRA things obviously for those of you who haven't read that there there's a proposal it is that
is in the on the tax reform side, right. So that's coming from the tax at three and a half trillion dollar or whatever that
trillion dollar packages where they're trying to limit

© Russ 03:15

our own dog on.

© Mauricio 03:18

And, you know, | think that's the so the rule, the proposal is they want to limit or eliminate your ability as an IRA
holder to invest in companies into LLC, including obviously syndications. And every CPA | talked to is just a it's a
terrible it's a terrible, terrible rule. But | think it's coming from again, sort of that bad policy trying to pick out one
specific example and trying to make a rule around it, and then forgetting about all the ripple effects that it has and it
doesn't just affect the wealthy but it affects you know, Main Street mom and mom and pops. But it's all has to do
with a lot of people are using this Roth IRA. You know, when they start these huge companies, right, they start you
start Facebook, or you start. | think it was Peter Thiel that has Peter Thiel for sure. Yeah. And it's worth zero he turned
Nevada is probably the most attractive if that was your sole purpose is to live in one of those three states. So So
Nevada becomes really attractive, because now you actually live in the state, you can, you know, you can get a
Nevada asset protection trust, which I'm sure Kevin will talk about at the webinars, | don’t want to get to details. And
| have seen charts that again, same thing, they'll go state by state, and they'll give you sort of a summary of how
strong that that at that state is primarily as it as it goes as it relates to what I'm looking at, specifically as it pertains
to the charging order protection, which | know ricin and Kevin talked about the syndication seminar. But that's the
crux and again, | don't want to go into an asset protection analysis. But the crux is, is the charging order, the
exclusive remedy that a creditor has, that's really what you're looking for in a particular state. And so | have seen
several websites and | can get | can pull them up somewhere else and share them with membership. So that you can
have a quick summary where it will say, oh, Nevada charging order is the you know, is the | think maybe Garrett has

it over corporate direct, I'll take I'll take a website up that gives you that.

Russ 28:38

Hey, well, everybody heard you make that commitment. So we're gonna hold you accountable. Yeah. Okay.

Mauricio 28:42

And then the last one, which again, you just want to be aware of, and this one, | don't have a resource for you. But
again, it would apply to the states is if you're in the business of raising capital, to then turn around and loan it to
yourself, or maybe even just raise capital through debt as opposed to equity, then you got to think about the the
lending laws in your particular state. | know that California has some really egregious and strict lending laws that
you have to apply by visa, the Nevada that basically has no lending laws. So that's another factor. But it really isn't
one answer fits all, because it just depends on what aspect of the law you're mostly concerned about. And then we'd
have to just go find those reasons. | know there's resources on the first to the last one. It's just check with your local

real estate transactional attorney to see you know, if there's anything you need to be aware of on the lending side,

Russ 29:27

hey, Brad, when when when you follow up with a membership and Mauricio to get that information, also, hit me up
because there's a consulting company right here in Arizona, | think they're in Scottsdale that help people set RIAs up.
That's what they do. And | know | was talking to Dave just the other day. So and he's looking into that. And there's
also some people out there if you're not an accredited investor, and is this true if you become an RIA, then you can
invest like an accredited Did investor even though you don't have the financial or income qualifications. And so
there's some advantages to doing that. It from what | understand it’s not a very difficult license to obtain. | was
securities licensed before, and I've had series six series 26. And, and most of it is, and to me, I'll tell you what | just, |
really was glad that | had that training when we first started because at least | had a good working knowledge of
blue sky laws and disclosures and, and just the way securities law worked with commingling. And when we first
started syndicating, we didn't have mauricia, we didn't have, we didn't have any counsel | was it. And what |, | knew
enough to keep us out of major trouble. And | knew enough to know that we needed to get help. And that's when we
brought Mauricio on board and went to a whole new level. But, but | think that might be worth looking into. So Brad,
when you hit me up to do that, then | can disseminate that to everybody in the membership. And that's something
that everybody can look at doing, or at least be aware of. And it could be an option, if you've got somebody out
there that is like, you know, 800 $900,000 person and they're not accredited. And you got to see and they want to be
able to play or, you know, you've got people that have for whatever reason how they manage their affairs, if they
have good asset protection, and they have really good tax, then they they are people of substance that look poor on
paper. And the problem is how do you how do you qualify as an accredited investor? If you're poor on paper? It's one

of the reasons I'm looking at getting an RIA.
Mauricio 31:34

Yeah, and | know, and one of the things | think you and | talked about for a while that's on my list, this one I'm not
going to promise anytime in any specific dates, but | think the series 65 I'm sorry, the Yeah, 65. Five is probably the
easiest route. Because the RIA to become a registered investment advisor that's usually at the federal level, which
none of us qualify. And then it just becomes a series seven series 65 or series 82 and then registering it with your
state. But everything I've seen so far, and | haven't done a deep dive, but 65 seems to be the shortest path. And so
I'm working on a on some kind of a piece of content that helps people if they're interested in doing that. And
primarily also, it's something that helps syndicators, who can then pass that information along to an investor who's
thinking about it, you can be like, hey, you can be Have you thought about becoming a serious 65 licensed
investment advisor. Here's a report or here’s a checklist. | think it’s going to be more like a checklist here. The things

you need to do to get that that light. Yeah.

Russ 32:26

And this firm actually consults all that all the way through the actual act of starting the practice. It's a turnkey deal. |
just haven't followed up on it. But, Brad, if you hit me up, I'll make sure that we get that out to everybody. Okay. All
right. So that was Brad, do you have another question, Brad, or is that that? Any any follow up to that? Do we get you
taken care of? Yeah, | think we're good. Awesome. Okay. All right. Scott, Florida. You said you had a couple?

Scott Florida 32:52

Yeah. Good to see you guys. Thank you. First question is just kind of a follow up on the one that was just raised. You
were talking about RIAs and | remember ratio saying earlier in a previous meetup | think it was that the accrediting
invest accredited investor designation was either going to be able to be attained by people who didn't have a million

dollars or they just needed to pass a test. Is that something that actually took place? And is that available now?

Russ 33:25

We just moving at the speed or government? Yes, maybe this we love

Mauricio 33:28

it. We just put | think it's in the in the resources Russ but the last report | put together the SEC updates. One of them
talks about the the accredited investor expansion, the short answer is...The short answer of that is what we just talked
about the only the only certifications that so far have come through are if you're a registered investment advisor at
the federal level, or you have one of those three licenses we just talked about 7, 63 or 82 supposedly at the speed of
government light over the next 12 months or so they're going to come out with other, for lack of a better word,
institutions that will be have the designation of being a certified or being able to certify you as an accredited
investor. You're going to have to take some kind of a course, pass some kind of an exam we have no clue what that
looks like whether that's a weekend seminar a self study course or a six months some | don't know we don't know the
only thing we know for sure now is those investment advisory
October 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Legal &
Compliance...

@ Thu, 10/7 8:41AM @© 1:04:09

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, syndication, deal, investors, mauricio, exemption, question, money, securities laws, state, raising, asset protection, point,

brad, talk, specific, security, relationship, accredited, refinance

SPEAKERS

Mauricio, Brad Niebuhr, Michael Meade, Scott Florida, Ken Hosac, Russ

) Russ 00:01

Hey syndication mentoring club. It’s Russ here for our October 2021 edition of Ask the mentors, and today we're
covering legal with our advisory board member and resident syndication attorney, Mauricio are ruled. | almost said
that properly. I've only been saying that for 1000 years. So how are you doing? Mauricio,

 ) Mauricio 00:23

I'm good after 18 years, | figured you figure it out.

© Russ 00:25

And | got a little tongue tied there. I've been I've just been going meeting after meeting after meeting people amped
up on coffee. But but I'm excited we got we got some new members. So if you're here on a very first ask dementors
call welcome. Kind of the rules of engagement are if you can keep your mic off, until you have something to say
because otherwise, we pick up feedback and background noise. So appreciate that. love it when the cameras are on.
But don't feel obligated, especially if weird stuff is in the background. Because this is being recorded, and it lives on
the platform forever. So, but anyway, that said, we have two questions that were pre submitted one from Mark
Chase, and | don't see him on yet the other from Michael Mead, and | don't see him yet. So I'm gonna give them a
little bit of time to pop in assuming that they will. If not, I'll ask on their behalf. But it’s always better for you to be on
the call if you can. With that said, before we kind of just open it up to q&a ratio. Is there anything going on in the
legal arena that the folks need to be aware of based on the things that you're paying attention to?

© Mauricio 01:28

Those right when you said that I'm like, Oh, he's gonna ask me about something. If there’s anything updated? | don't
think there is where | can't come
 

Ken Hosac 45:42

Okay, yeah, no, | appreciate it. It's, it's just | again, until | went to the syndication summit, | didn't even know that was
like when | talked to local real estate developers in my market and I, I'm in Seattle today, but I’m from Boise. | know, it
seems like a lot of them are just like, yeah, you know, whenever we just, we just have the LLC and their limited

partners. And it’s never been a problem. But

Mauricio 46:03

yeah, and that's the reason | you know, | got a problem until it is, yeah, and that's the reason | you know, | get a lot of
slack for the title of the ebook | wrote | know is in the is in the library somewhere. | mean, | call it the five things every

syndicator must know, to stay out of jail. And even though | preface the jail

Russ 46:20

at real estate, guys radio, real estate jail, | have to say, guys, radio.com,

Mauricio 46:25

| preface the whole thing by saying, look, you probably aren't going to go to jail if unless you're defrauding investors,
but | wanted to catch people's attention, because people are very Cavalier with the securities laws, and they just
don't think about them, or they'd like, oh, everybody's doing it, that they just don't take it seriously enough. And if it
ever gets to the point where the SEC does do an audit or look into it, and there's some issues, they have some serious
consequences, again, probably not going to go into jail, but it may lead you to go to bankruptcy have to return all of
you, and the main ones gonna have to be returned all the investors money, plus interest, even if it wasn't your fault

that you lost the money in the first place for you.

Russ 46:58

And if the deal isn't done, even if you're completely illiquid, if the money is deployed, and you have to give people
their money back and let them out and make them whole,

Mauricio 47:06

right, and so you don't have if there’s an issue, you probably don't have the money because it’s gone, it’s probably
gone south or it's not really working really well. And so then now what now you're going to file for bankruptcy and
now you're going to bankruptcy on the record. And now it’s you know, on your permanent record in terms of you're
going to be barred from ever raising money again, it's going to be all over the internet, because there's going to be
all these cease and desist. And every bit every time anybody Google's view, it's going to be not a good thing. So it's
serious content that might my point is it’s it is a serious thing. And | agree with you 100%, a lot of people are cavalier
about it. | think a lot of people truly don't know, they just don’t know what they don't know. But other people | think
do know, but they just decide to overhaul what's the worst | can have, I'm just not going to go spend this money. I'm
just gonna do it this way, cuz everybody else is doing this. Well, |
the first thing we're going to talk about, if you're if we You and | are talking about is what exemption Are we going to
rely on? Because depending on what decision we make, on that point, are we going to go advertising route? Are we
going to go no advertising route, what's the exemption we're going to pick is going to dictate what we can and
cannot say, moving forward. So that would be my first question is like, are you planning on advertising this deal? Or
are you relying on a 506 b exemption where you're limited to people that you already know that you have pre
existing relationships? So maybe I'll ask you real quick since you're on the line and this is interactive, what what in
your mind are in this hypothetical or real scenario? which route are you going are you going to advertise or you're not
going to advertise or | could not make that decision yet.

Michael Meade 14:35
And most likely be go the advertising route.

Mauricio 14:38

Okay, so the minute you go the advertising route that really opens up your arsenal of things that you could say, these
are the 506 B, because you are allowed to advertise You are a lot of ticking. Ross mentioned conditioning the market
conditioning, the market only applies to a 506 B, because that's considered an offer and an advertisement. But if
you're going to do a 506 C, you are allowed to advertise, you are allowed to go on a podcast, you can go on any
podcast and talk not only about generally your deal, but you can actually talk specifically, you can literally say, Hey,
I'm under contract to buy a $5 million deal, I'm looking for a million bucks. If you're interested, email me. And you can
say that under a 506C. If you're doing a 506 B, obviously, we would not be able to do that, because that would be
well, that will be directly pitching your deal. But even if you start alluding to it, so that’s the critical question. So
based on your feedback, the only thing you have to really be concerned about from a security standpoint, when
you're doing a 506 c offering, in terms of what you can and cannot say, is really having to do with the what we call
the anti fraud provisions. You don't want to be out there telling people specific things without fully disclosing
everything. So you still want to guard the details until there's a full fully developed business plan that your attorney
has gone through. And then obviously, the docs but honestly, if you're already in contract, and you are thinking this is
going to be a syndication, you should already be working with your sec lawyer. Depending on how much long you've
been in contract, you may already have a completed business plan or a completed offering docs where you can
actually be talking about specifics, but if you're not there yet, just don't don’t talk about too specifics, because then
you might run into the the issue of the anti fraud, because you're letting them know, Hey, we're estimating a six to 8%
cash on cash return, that's very specific, we haven't really delved into all of the risks and all the sort of the
counterbalance to that statement. But um, you really should be talking to your security attorney really early on. And
that way with the 506 C, there’s not that much I'm concerned about.

Russ 16:40

Okay, let me let me jump in with something for everybody, because we have some new folks and you never know
where people are going to be out watching this in the future. But just a gentle reminder, B means you have a pre
existing relationship and you're relying upon the relationship rather than their, their, their their accredited status,
although they could be accredited, that's fine, but you're focusing on a different exemption. So and then C is where
you're only going to offer to accredited investors. And it's a very specific exemption. And there was a great debate
that we did with the it’s recorded in the platform about the difference differences between a B and a C offering. So
just be aware of that, that it’s in the platform, you know, if you're feeling like, hey, that's all just went over my head, B
is pre existing relationship, which means that you have a personal substantive relationship with the person before
you have the deal. So if you meet somebody, after you're in contract in a deal, that's probably a gray area. But once

you have the offering, and you're out there publicly presenting it to people and signing people up, then for sure
Wy Russ 34:25

it's probably going to be an indoctrination to paper assets. But we'll see Yeah, it's not it’s not real life yet. So it’s we're
obviously monitoring it and I’m sure that ratio and make sure we're among the first to know.

&) Scott Florida 34:39

Okay, that’s great.

© Russ 34:40

What else got you have a second one. But you muted

&) Scott Florida 34:47

non disclosure non circumvent. Is that a general form? Or is that something specific you need to talk to counsel and
get a specific form for each specific deal that you offer. When you present get ready to that To present to an
investor,

© Mauricio 35:02

I'm gonna get I'm gonna keep committing to things here. But you know, | have a, | have a pretty, nothing fancy,
nothing fancy, but I've got a template NDA non circumvention that I'm happy to share with everyone and sort of just
insert blanks here. | don't think you need to go spend $2,000 to talk to an attorney about it, they're generally to be
honest with you, they don't really have the greatest of teeth, anyway, unless, you know, unless there's a really
hardcore liquidated damages clause. But | think, Robert, Robert, | think it is Robert, this one, Robert, usually just it just
it's more of a message that you're sending and how serious they are, if they refuse to sign it, but I'm happy to email
that over to membership and you know, that can be put somewhere on the platform for everyone to have access to.

© Russ 35:44

Now when it comes to those documents, there's there's three different components that you want to pay attention
to. One is non disclosure, meaning that you're going to identify specific oral written or any other types of materials
that you're going to provide that are not otherwise available in the public domain. And you're going to designate
that those are confidential, and they'll be covered by the confidentiality agreement, which can be anywhere, you
know, usually from 24 months to 60 months, I've never seen one get past 60 months. | always try to get 60 months
just to see if anybody will push back plenty of time for me to develop the opportunity. Before you know, it's it's open
game. So non disclosure. The other part is non circumvention, which means that there’s somebody isn't going to go
around you, you're going to say, Hey, I'm working on this deal. And then they go directly to the deal source and they
cut a deal around you. So you know, you don't want to get circumvented. In other words, | brought the deal to you to
show it to you to ask your opinion, all sudden, you did the deal and cut me out of it. Right? That's bad form. But
people play that way, especially if there's a lot of meat on the bone. And then the third part of it is non solicitation.
And that can be where you're introducing people to team members or key people. That all sudden they hire, they
bring in they recruit whatever, we usually look for all three, non disclosure, non solicitation, non circumvention, that's
what's in your syndication, mentoring club. agreement. That's That's why we did it that way. Because your
relationships you want to protect to not just the deal, | know we're all deal people, we all think about deals. But often
they were having dinner together and they got a chance to get to know each other. So being a syndicator is a lot
about just going out living your life and making friends. And then building the friendship first relationship always
comes before transaction. And then at some point, introducing a transaction as you've gotten to know people,
they've gotten to know you, and you begin to understand what it is they're looking for, and how you can help them
not how they can help you how you can help them | don't want to get off on that because it's easy for me to go off
on that tangent. But that's a big part of being a successful B. Student, if you will a b syndicator. So okay, so there's
that. So that was Michael meet. | don't see Mark chase on he had a question. So we'll bounce back to that. If he
doesn't pop on. I'd rather wait. Give him a chance to ask it himself. But it looks like Brad and Emily, have a question.
Not sure whether it was Brad or Emily. But whichever one it was, go ahead and unmute yourself and ask your
question.

© Brad Niebuhr 21:55

Emily's not in here. So it’s just me.

© Russ 21:57

It's purely Brad. Yeah, well, that’s our loss. I'm kidding.

© Brad Niebuhr 22:04

| got a question. And it's probably too broad to answer in this call. But is there somewhere so for somebody looking
to relocate? As | know, Mauricio, we've talked in the past, possibly Texas, possibly Florida, is there somewhere or

© Russ 22:19

possibly anywhere? But the People’s Republic of Washington?

© Brad Niebuhr 22:23

Yeah. Right. Is there somewhere to compare states on how friendly they are to investors or for legal aspects for
syndicators? Or, | mean, how do we look at things from from that aspect?

© Russ 22:42

and Maurcio before before you go there, | mean, maybe you can just kind of address the concept of the difference
between the national laws and the state laws. | know, you have to be aware of both of them. Most of the time.
Federal law in this regard, trumps state law. And so if you if you qualify under the feds, you're going to be okay in a
state. And but states do have some of their own blue sky laws. He’s laughing because | said the word Trump | didn't
know

 ) Mauricio 23:06

anything. No laughing because Ben Dickey said Oklahoma is open for business.
Russ 04:00
his $2,000 IRA into a $5 billion tax free

Mauricio 04:05

Yeah, so he here's two grand to start a company now it goes public and it's worth $5 billion and now it's all tax free
because it's on my Roth IRA. So they're trying to that was the intent to close that loophole. But of course they always
catch more and more people so that's why there’s | posted on my social media there's a couple of CPAs that have
links to kind of talk to your congressman and just let them know that you don't like it because again it’s meant to
attack the billionaires but it’s going to be affecting you know everyday people and and then of course there's others
that just say hey, it’s just Wall Street that's lobbying to get money out of the private placements and getting back

into the public market which has been shrinking for a long time.

Russ 04:43

Well you know, if you guys haven't read the article we years ago when Mauricio first introduced the JOBS Act us we
wrote a report called new law of rakes Wall Street monopoly and you can get that | think it's monopoly it real estate
guys radio.com, but it's still in our special report library on the website. The reason we wrote that report is because
we saw this huge opportunity now to advertise to accredited investors and a lot of private money making its way
into, or individual money making its way into private placements. And, you know, we said, Hey, | don’t know the
people of Wall Street have really thought this thing through it, because this opens up the floodgates. So they've
basically had the party alter themselves between ARISA, which is the retirement act of 1974, that drove all pension
funds and private money savings, basically into Wall Street. And then just the accredited investors rules, which meant
that if you were a small fish, you you basically only had the option to invest in in Wall Street. And the only reason
they made an exemption for the rich people was because the rich people were smart enough to know that that they
wanted the opportunity to do private deals. And that really created a huge opportunity. We've been riding that wave
for a long, long time. This IRA ruling is like the or not ruling. But the rattling is really the first time we've seen anybody
kind of wake up to the idea that, hey, there’s money coming out of Wall Street and going into private placements,
and we want to put a stop to it. So it could just be a tax thing. You know, as the way it's being presented, it could be
Hey, we want to, we want to kind of herd the sheep back into the wall street pen, we don't know but that's something
we're going to be paying attention to. Because it’s it's going to continue to be a something that could affect you. And
then the other thing for those of you that are international, certainly those of you that are putting together
international structures, and hopefully all of you are going to be participating in the October 12 webinar that we're
doing with Kevin Day, we already have like 135 people registered so we're excited about that. But we're gonna be
talking about asset protection what | call industrial strength asset protection for for .... industrial strength asset
protection for for syndicators and we talked a little bit about that at the last secrets of successful syndication event
so that doesn't you know, that's legal it’s not this type of legal research really hear from a from a ppm you know,
syndication perspective. But these things are somewhat interrelated. There's the point is there's a lot of things
changing right now, because it'd be going after these offshore companies you've probably been reading about the
Pandora papers all sudden that that that happened a while ago, but all sudden, it's like this thing in the news now.
So you've got them. Oh, you know, the the people with offshore tax havens? That's bad. Oh, the people that use IRAs,
that's bad. Oh, the people that do private placements are somehow bad. | mean, they haven't said that yet. But
wouldn't be surprising if it starts to be a little bit controversial. So just be aware of that. Excuse me. So anyway, with
all that said, ratio, anything else that is on your list that you think people should be paying attention to

Mauricio 08:00

LAAs HAA VAIANe HAA Main FHAIina FAA RALIAKE mis AVIAD AKA en 1 Hhinkl vianlen ARARA
equity growth. ROI, you just have to let people know what they're getting into what your investment thesis and
strategy is, of course, you sell them on your team and your competency and ability to execute. And then you just let
them know, you know, when, when they get in, and how they get out.

Scott Florida 1:00:16

That's kind of the basics. And can you add investors along the way? So that's different

Russ 1:00:20

now you've got an open ended fund. And so can you answer that in like, one minute?

Mauricio 1:00:26

Yeah, real quick, the answer is yes. But then there's other issues, you got to think about, you know, what's the
valuation that they're coming into, like, if somebody comes in day one, or somebody comes in day 365, you may
have to readjust the net asset value of the fund to reprice the shares, otherwise it becomes unfair. The other issue
you have is the the audited financials, you know, now you're gonna have an ongoing business. So you may be
required if you have non accredited investors to provide them with audited financials of your fund. So it does open
up another little bit of a can of worms, but we definitely do that where we allow people coming in, but you have to

adjust that and put some of those provisions in

Russ 1:00:56

the different class of investors in the high tech world, if you're familiar with it, you know, you have your friends and
family, you have your angel investors to kind of get the idea born. And then after a certain amount of work has been
done permits or intellectual properties being created, or whatever it is, then you have another group of people. And
now you're ready to do a more formal private offering. And you bring in your a capital, your B, capital, your C,
however many rounds at some point, your target is a merger and acquisition or an IPO. And that's your exit strategy.
So so we adopted that. And then a development project, we had an investor who just was our earnest money guy,
and he would come in, he would give us the earnest money. And then as soon as we raised the money to close the
contract, we took him out, if he liked the deal, he could stay in, then we had the land people who they came in, they
bought the land. And they knew that we were going to hold the land for a year and a half, while we did all the
entitlement work and get all the pre marketing done, get the team together. And then we were going to sell to a new
group of investors that were going to come in, and they were going to do the development. And then we were going
to sell that takeout inventory either to investors or to the marketplace. And so everybody had an entrance point and
an exit point, investors would come in at the very beginning, right all the way to the end, but there were bus stops
along the way. So this is, you know, the idea of having a series with within a longer term play, you can do the same
thing, it doesn’t have to be a development project, I'm gonna go buy a bunch of properties that are crappy condition,
okay, that's phase one. Phase Two, I'm going to build them up to market value, we may liquidate some of them to
create ROI, the ones that we don't think are part of the go forward plan. And you know, if the market gives it to us,
we're going to refinance the rest of them. And then there's an exit point there for certain investors. If you like what
we're doing and want to keep writing, then we're going to take the remaining equity that we refinance, and we're
going to marry that to new equity that we raised. But at each phase of the game, the shares that are being
purchased your new class of shareholders, and their their valuation is based on what you estimate the value to be at
the time you do it, which should reflect a positive rate of return for the people got on the bus early. Because it’s the
time value of money is the argument that you're making. So it's a little bit about deal structure and strategy, but also
obviously has legal ramifications. But that's the way you would do it. So if there's follow up questions on that, just
kick it over to the next one, because we're over time, really appreciate everybody's participation, lively conversation,
welcome to the new folks, this is what we do. So we have a big library of these calls on the platform that you can go
back and binge on. And then if you have questions that get raised by things that you watch, bring those to the new
ones, we have legal, we have operations, we have sales, we have news, we have asset protection, we have financing,
there's a whole bunch of them. And we covered just about everything. And it's as you can see very interactive, we're
always going to take the questions you could pre submitted first, as long as the people are on. And then as we
stimulate your thoughts, we want to have you come in just rules of adequate when you join, try to be on time, make
sure you mute yourself until it’s time to talk and, and you know, just give us your full attention while you're here. So
you get the most out of it. And we get the most out of you. All right. So with that, thank you very much, Mauricio for

being our mentor for the day. And we'll see on the next call.

©) Scott Florida 1:04:05
Thanks, guys.

& Russ 1:04:06

Thank you. Thank you.
make these modest investments to get the proper structure in place. It they make no sense if you're going to do small
deals, which is why people struggle, they think, Oh, | just want to start small and they can't, because all this
infrastructure, all this work in the beginning gobbles up so much, there's just not enough meat on the bone to make it
worth it. Just get a bigger bone. Alright, so I'm gonna squeeze in Scott, Florida’s question real quick here. And then

we're going to call this a wrap.

&) Scott Florida 56:29

Well, so my question is related to doing a deal where you come in with cash and you buy, say, for example, you got a
million dollars, you buy five homes for cash, then you refi that out, and you buy four more homes, you complete those
you refi that out, you buy three more that type of deal. Is that a deal that's doable, legally? In one syndication? Do
you have to specify right up front? Okay, | want, I'm gonna I'm gonna do five of these, and then I'm going to do four,
then 12321? So is are those things where you have to be very specific about that upfront? Or is there some flexibility?
So | go in, | want to buy five, but | raise enough to buy six? My question is, how specific Do you need to be in a deal
like that? And and well, first of all, before that, is it doable? Second of all, is do you need to be real specific upfront
about it?

© Mauricio 57:23

Yeah, it’s absolutely doable. | mean, again, you can be creative. So very creative model, | love it. And as long as we're
disclosing that to the investors upfront, you're going to be good. You don't have to be super specific in terms of how
to do this three or four cycles, you know, I'm going to do this three times that I'm going to stop, but you have to let
them know that this is what you're going to be doing, because they're going to want to know at what point are you
going to be refinancing or selling them and give me some of my principal back, right? And so you can be vague, you
know, in terms of how many times you do it, but you do have to let them know that when | do refinance these
projects, | would probably insert some language, some sort of vague language that says, hey, when | refinance these
things, it's my discretion of my sole discretion, whether to return this money to you as a return of capital, or to
reinvest it in more of these same and again, are you investing in the same type of assets. So as long as we're
disclosing that along the way, we're good, | would probably do it that way of being as from a legal perspective, |
want to make it as vague as possible gives us more options, you may get hit a wall with investors at that point with
like, wait a minute, I'm not super clear on when this ends, and when, you know, when do | get my money back or start
getting some of that money? So I'm not comfortable investing? That's a different question. From from a legal
standpoint, as long as we're open kimono is as the legal phrase goes, we can just put it in there and let them know
what's going on.

© Russ 58:45

Okay, so yeah, but | think that it’s not quite a blind fund, what you're basically doing is you are saying I'm going to
build a portfolio of single family homes, or whatever it is, and I'm going to manage the properties and the equity in
those to grow the portfolio. And so whatever your investment thesis is, that’s it, then you have a strategy based on
top of that, and then you are going to have kind of a game plan, which is, you know, money comes in, and we
operate for a certain period of time and you have exit points, you can, you know, get out at a refinance, you can get
out at a disposition, we're going to ride this bus for five years, for seven years, for 10 years. So you know, investors are
always going to want to know, what am | getting into? What am | going to get, and how do | get out? That's it. And if
you disclose all of that, and they understand that that's the deal, then it's definitely doable. | mean, from a financial
strategy from a portfolio management from an investment execution perspective, absolutely doable. It's called
breeding equity and sweat equity happens is all about and people do it all the time. And it doesn't really matter

what the asset class is you're just going to be aggressively managing equity growth and debt in order to accelerate
