JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

59:02

It's a pathway. It’s a pathway.

59:05

And it'll work.

59:09

It makes a lot of sense. No, |

59:10

say it'll work. That a case in point which | physically handled was there was a contract of
sale which was prepared improperly for, for a church to sell some property to a British
company. And the lawyer to the lawyers were not equal. The lawyer that represented the
foreign company was was a downtown big firm, and the lawyer to represent the church
was nothing. And the papers were ridiculous. And now it came to me signed documents.
And they want to know how to get the deed. Again, me What would | do? | said, Forget it.
You're not going to give them the deed. And then when | came up, and | spoke to the
other lawyer who was represented the foreign company And | said to that if you got a
shame, you're going to see in the papers, did you on behalf of a client tried to take
advantage of a Catholic Church? How is that going to sit with your with your law firm?

And the story well said, so he said, What don't you like about the contract? What do you
think | said, everything but the date. Now, let's negotiate it the way it should be, and make
a fair deal. Your guy wants to buy the property at church, he's willing to sell the property.
But make it fair, we'll take take into account that we both know what we're doing. And we
want to make a deal not where you're going to take advantage because one party kind of

weak lawyer actually happened, it didn't work out.

1:00:54

| love it. | love it.

1:00:57

Well, thank you, George, this was a very educational,
JO

JO

JO

Die)

JO

JO

JO

JO

1:01:01

this is this is good if we have more like this, because we find because you can learn a lot
on dealing with difficult people or difficult situations or unusual facts. That could in fact, is
we do actual cases is fantastic. | thought he dreamed him up.

1:01:17
| wish | had.

1:01:19

Unfortunately, the real.

1:01:21

Yeah. Good. So at least we got an insight into people that are listening also probably got

some kind of insight or how you handle transactions involving unusual situations.

1:01:32

Yes, indeed. Well, George, | know we're here at the top of the hour. Thank you so much.

Have Say hi to your lovely wife. For us. Certainly real

1:01:40

good. This is | find this very entertaining.

1:01:42

Fantastic. Well,

1:01:45

let's hope something comes out of it. Yeah, !'ll
JO

don't like the type of food or you lose the chef, all kinds of things. That's a restaurant

business by itself, you know, is hazardous.

43:55

Right, right. Okay, I'd like to maybe go over to the to the second case study, because |
definitely want to get through that one as well. It's got a lot of interesting moving parts to
it. So this is the second case study involves the sale of a property where there was a lawyer
representing the seller. And the lawyer said, Okay, I'm going to represent you Oh, and my
goodness, | found a buyer for you. He's a partner in my law firm. So they put together a
deal for the purchase of the property with a partner in the same law firm. Not surprisingly,
there is a conflict of interest there. But even if you put that aside, the seller is thinking that
he has a deal. period of time goes by and they decide or the Lord comes back and says,
You know what, rather than selling the land, let's do this as a share transaction. And I'll do
the legal work for you all sign all prepare, the shareholder agreements, the new operating
agreement and all the rest, and the seller ended up being on the hook for all of that legal
work for The entity as opposed to a real estate transaction, but the seller didn't have the
funds to do all that legal work. So the lawyer said, You know what? No problem. | will, I've
got this firm called law loans, Inc. and this firm will pay your bill. And we'll secure the
payment by putting a lien by recording a mortgage on title for that legal work period of
time goes by. The lawyer comes back and says, oh, I've got bad news for you. There's an
environmental issue on your property, there’s a there was a gas station across the street
that's built some gasoline and your property's now contaminated your land is worth less.
But you know, don't worry, | can represent you and remediating the environmental issue.
But of course, I'm going to need a larger retainer records a second mortgage now both
mortgages combined represent about a quarter million dollars for an unknown amount of
legal work. And not only that secures gets further security by putting a lien on the
property owners matrimonial residents on his personal home. So there's three mortgages
covering, you know, this, there's one piece of legal work, fast forward a period of time the
purchase falls through, the lawyer then sends a demand note saying that demand letter
saying that your mortgage is now in default, I'm going to initiate power sale proceedings
in order to perfect that money that you owe me. So now, fast forward, we've come in we
are protecting the the gentleman who signed all this crazy paperwork. We've, you know,
put a stop to the legal proceedings, there was an injunction put forward, where the we
went to court and got an injunction to stop the the power of sale. And now we've
requested the courts to assess the legal fees and see if these legal fees are valid, if the
mortgage is even valid. It’s clearly adversarial, very different situation than the, you know,
simply walking up and trying to buy a piece of property. So we're ready in court. If this is
either going to go to court, if it's going to go to court, it's going to be a multi year, drawn

out process because this guy's a lawyer, and he's going to figure out ways to delay the
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

20:31

So in that scenario, we wouldn't actually even need to pay for the option because we're

basically transferring the option to a new property. Yeah,

20:39

yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you build in an advantage of a lease, lease advantage, that he
couldn't get it the new building, if we were just operating, if we do buy it after the building
was built. So I'm saying fine, I'm going to build a book or build a restaurant, I'm gonna
build it up to specifications and do whatever it is, and I'm going to pay you for the
inconvenience, you're involved. And you're going to make money in a restaurant. So now |
have a building with a restaurant, obviously successful restaurant, because it's been in
business for so many years. And it gives you an opportunity to maintain it and you have a
profitable restaurant at an attractive rental. Attractive rental could be nothing paid taxes,
or what have you at this point, assuming that that’s equivalent to the money you would
have paid to get rid of them. So for Joe, instead of paying rent, what happens is you get
out, | pay you for your loss of your loss of time, or you stay the two years and get out at
the end of two years. And I’m giving you extra dollars off your rent in the new building. So
I'll give you a rent concession of a year, two years, whatever it is to make it go to make it

attractive. Because you operate your restaurant. Wow. Wow.

27:0]

Okay. Yes.

2209

Okay. It works. Yes, it has to it works. Because the you, when | say there's nothing things,
you're going to lose your your protector, he’s protecting his position, which you have to
find out what it is. And the only way you can find out what it is when you're in when you're
in a position to make a transit mega deal. And say, let’s get down to fact. Here's what it is.
| want to buy your restaurant, what do you want? What How much do you want to sell

your restaurant

22:38

for? And we need to
JO

JO

JO

JO

41:19

Fantastic.

41:21

Why don't we lots of possibilities.

41:24

Let me see if there’s any questions from the folks online here. If you want if you have a
question you want to put on this case study in the chat window? And if not, we'll move
over to the second case study. This has been very interesting. It's actually been
enormously helpful. Because you brought up a number of points that we certainly had not
considered in in our negotiation. Okay, that's been tremendous. Consider there are likely
to already have a deal. I'm not sure | understand the question. Karen, | don't know. Aaron.
Yeah, | was just clarifying. So there's a couple of things that | thought about, because I've
been involved in these kinds of situations. So the first one is like the local community,
because it’s likely that all these people in the local community going to that restaurant or
feeding that restaurant, cuz they're all baby boomers and baby boomers don't like to
cook. Okay. So they're going to so you have this whole community that doesn't want to
see the restaurant go. And then there's also the fact that these guys are best friends
anyway. So they probably already have a deal upon recognizing that they're going to sell
the building anyway. So they already know, together, they're planning to sell the building
together. | mean,

42:44

well, they may not they may or they may not or not know that, but they can't. A
community can't expect a tenant or somebody to operate a business, which is not making
money, which is not solid, oh, a period of time, whatever, whatever it is. They it’s in there.
Yeah, they like it. Now, that is attractive, and certainly something to discuss in
perpetuating the restaurant in a new building. So whoever is there, as an owner would
say, yeah, yeah, I'm making a lot of money here. I'll be in the same neighborhood with a
brand new building. And | can have a beautiful restaurant. And | already have the days
because the neighborhood loves me. So that's more of inducement to keep it on a long
term arrangement. But if he says it's not going to work, I'm gone. But that's incidental that
doesn't enter into the debts doesn't enter into the negotiations, because they're not real

parties. It's supposition. Neighborhoods could change, food could change. And people
JO

JO

JO

31:13

Yeah. But don't you have to pin down? No, that's your pin down, say, Good. We're ready,
Joe. I'm ready. Say Ron de What? I'm ready to try to contract now. Are you ready to sign a
contract? If the answer is no, we're not talking about turns or anything, then we have no
deal. Were you telling me he says no, I'm not ready to sign a contract. But you told me
you were planning on retiring, how you going to retire without money? When he answered.
So if you want to sell the property, I'm a buyer, | got cash I'm ready to do we can make a
deal. You can have you can go to Florida or really go and retire nice. | can solve the
problem. But if you want to do it now. Now's the time circumstances could change the
price may go down and you might not you work who knows what's what's going to
happen? I'm taking the the risk out of it. Because we'll sign a firm contract where you get
money. And you know, you have a deal? How can you refute that make it not still make a
deal? What do you What? What's further to negotiate? You know what I'm saying? Right?
Right? To negotiating that the terms are negotiable, but the concept of the transaction is
not he wants to sell you want to buy? They Okay, how do we do that? We enter into a
contract, what's the contract? Say? There's a price involved. There's a timeframe involved.
And there is a mutuality of interest where the you have to have the trust that he thinks or
whoever it is, on the other side trust you and thinks, yeah, you're not you're you want to
make a fair deal, because you've offered to make a fair deal. And he now has to make a
decision. Does he really want to retire and sell? You got to come to the conclusion. Yeah.
And what do we do a game a game a gift to $50,000, or whatever the number was, for
him to make up a mind that | would sell. The worst that happens, you keep 50 grand. The

best that happens, you show the property and appraise you can agree to it's a win win.

2o.90

One of the things in you wrote about it in the book is using unpredictability, in fact, as a
technique for maintaining negotiating leverage. And certainly if any of the folks on one
year have watched the news, they would have certainly seen Donald employing that
technique liberally at times. Sure. Talk a little bit about that. And where that fits.

33:56

Well, unpredictability is something that you can is always there. And you can throw it on
the table that just say that is there. So you can now looking at this piece of property and
say, guy who's going to do one or two things, three things, you're going to stay where they
are, they're going to go down or they're going to go up or we make a deal. Now, you live

we solved that problem. We're ready to do it. We're not subject to fluctuation. So
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

1:01:47

keep you posted. I'll let you know what happens. Great. | would like to like to hear

1:01:52

if when you get to the next phase, something came up. Give me a ring and we'll talk about
it. So they offered this okay. Yeah, it’s this is not not typical. Negotiations lawyer to lawyer
or what have you because you got an unusual situation. The first one is easy because
there's no element involved. Which is subject to there's no nothing illegal about. It's
involved because of the personalities that are involved. And | have different motives. The

second one is an outright thief. Yes. Okay,

1:02:33

thank you, George.

1:02:34

Take care. See you next next month.

1:02:36

Thank you so much. Have a great night, everyone. You too. Alright. Cheers.
JO

JO

therefore, also your health. Assume now that you had a cell because you had a health
factor that came and all of a sudden became what you're going to get the same price
because you're sick. Of course not. Because we know you, if the need becomes dire, you're
going to end up with a worse negotiation. So in addition to that your partner You're part
of a interrogated transaction, where | got three parcels and you're one. One of my other
passions is | may not be able to make the deals. So there's my risk, not yours. But if you
wait long, way too long, it's, it's no, no, no deal, | can't sell it. And you're getting a higher
price because you're part of a comedy a part of a major transaction. And you're getting
overpaid. your property by itself is not worth what I'm paying you. It’s only worth it
because | can use it as part of a larger transaction. But if the next guy comes, you can't
use your logic transaction. He’s not going to offer you what | bought for you. He's going to
come in with less because it has less value. Now, that’s not necessarily true, but it sounds
good. He can't deny it.

35:53

Well, that’s right. That's right. Well, yeah, because as soon as you consolidate whatever
setbacks front yard side yard setbacks, rear yard setbacks, they disappear. So you get to
utilize it. But that's,

36:07

you're not telling him that? Yeah, that's you just but you're not telling him you're, he's not a
builder at Apple, he’s an owner of a piece of property. Yeah, it makes it attractive for you
to buy it in the overall scheme, because you're putting it as part of an assemblage, right?
And it works, because | don't have to worry about sidewalks and so | whatever. And and |
can build, hire or pretend whatever. It says attractive. If it was a single parcel, it would be
attractive the way I'm doing. It’s not a single parcel. It’s a three parcels transaction. Or it
could be five, whatever it it just happens this time that it’s three. So if you find out what
you by asking, the appropriate question is what the other side wants to do. You can figure
out how can | make it happen? meet your needs, at least halfway, or | can't meet? | can't
guarantee is. So it’s a easy row, | say easy. Conceptually, it’s an easy negotiation, it may
take a period of time. And you may have to come to the realization, but it's like a, because
right now, at this point, suppose you owned 1000 shares of general notice, when you put it
up for sale, do you think it's going to go up or down? If you're selling it, you think it's going
to go down, but you're selling to me, | buy it, | think it’s going to go up. Otherwise, we
wouldn't do it. So it's everything is triggered on a point in time to do a particular
transaction. And you have to be satisfied yet now is a good time to do it and make it

attractive, so that they would do it. And in this instance, from the point, you're telling me,
JO

JO

JO

to buy your property. And however, you have the problem with lease, but | need time to go
solve the lease. And the lease runs out in two years. So | may need to hold two years. So |
want to enter into a contract with you in one form or another where | have the right to buy
the property for three month for $3 million and close it in two years, or | could close it
sooner. If assuming that it's available. So it’s my option. So the key here is, is to get your
leg in the door by getting an option. Give me an option, I'll pay you money for the option,
though, if you give me an option to enter into a contract, for you to buy it for 3 million was
really into whatever we agree upon. And give me six months or three months, an option.
So that for me to work it out. Now, if | can’t work it out, you keep the option money. So the
option money could be whatever you agree upon, you want to make it as little for the
purchaser. The owner might make it higher, but meanwhile, he’s not hurting, its found
money. No, it was just nothing happens. Except if you're given 25 $50,000, | don't know
what you're going to do. But given that, that you Good work. And if you don't close in the
six months, you don't solve the problem in six months, then effectively keeps them keeps

the option that he owns the property.

11:08

So that’s how we approached it to begin with. And you know, we'd started a fact, you
mentioned 50,000, that's actually the number we started with. And he said, look for guys,
like you 50 grand, if you lose 50 grand, it's not going to change your life, | want it to be a

large enough number, that if you walk away, it hurts.

11:26

The only way workaway hurts question, the approach or the defense to that is like, hey,
you're you're getting money that you don't have, this is found money for you. Is I'm giving
you 50 grand, to for six months. What's better with that, at the end of six months, he had
50 grand more than you had before, or you have a deal that we agreed upon. And again,
you haven't planned at that point, we'll agree if and if now, we can build on it or ended up
sooner, I'll give you more. So you make it a two step transaction. I'll give you for 50,000.
Now, if | can solve the problem with the restaurant, I'll give you another 200,000. Well,
whatever the number is,

12:10

right, right.
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

15:10

| know why that's okay. He just sent a piece. So he said, Yeah, he said, he says you? Well,
yeah. But if you don't tie up my piece of property, you can build what you want to build,
that says his concern really is a good point to negotiate. Because he's important to your

building.

15:29

And the counter whatever, however, argument is that we add the piece onto

19:34

your argument is yes, that’s that that is absolutely true. But meanwhile, you're giving me a
defective piece of property? Who created the defect? You did? Right. So now | in order for
me to accomplish what | want to accomplish, | have to cure your defect. So let's enter into
a contract, where I'm going to give you a deposit which we couldn't negotiate right? And
give me six months to solve the problem. To that time, | come up with a good more

money. Well, we have no deal, and you keep the the deposit. How do you how do you

16:11

lose or you don't? Yeah, that's very good. That's very good. So you don't know now is

16:17

phase two. Phase two now is assuming you get to phase one. Because if you don't get
through with phase one, you'll never get to phase two. Now you have to talk to the owner
of the restaurant, we're dealing now with Paul. And you go to Paul and say, Look, | want
to buy the property, wanna do it, but you have a restaurant, and | want to buy it. And |
really want to you your lease runs out in two years, | wouldn't talk options, your lease runs
out into use, | would like to buy it and pay you to get out. So if you last the whole two
years, I'll pay you for the two if you get out sooner than two years, then | will pay you for
you what you would load and last in assuming you operate the restaurant at a profit. So |
want the right to cut you a lease or short, and I'll pay you for what you would have lost if

you operated.
JO

JO

the property who wants to sell and retire. And once you get paid for the value of the
property, wherever you may agree, you have yourself as the buyer that’s willing to do it,
provided | get it at the right price. And | have to solve the problem relating to the
operation of the restaurant, which is there a long term lease which would interfere with
the my purchase of the property and my utilization of it. So that’s the one that you have
another wrinkle. And the other wrinkle, which you presented is that the the owner of the
restaurant, the operator of the restaurant and the owner of the building are friends. Yes.
Alright. So that creates a different problem was a different problem is how do you
separate the negotiations. You can't have you can't leave them in that position. Gailey,
my friends you got to deal with as if they're separate and distinct. So you have to decide
the dealing with the owner of the property. And then dealing with a tenant under the
lease, and getting the time and the ability to work it out. So that's ridiculous. But that's not
unusual. In any major transaction, you can have any number of the people that are
involved in making the thing happen, I've had it, for example, five owners of large losses,
you want to build a building covering all five owners, you got to deal with five different
people. And if you don't solve the problem with five, you have nothing. So you have to
work with the facts that are given in this instance, you have the facts are pretty clear. So
what you would do, or the appropriate way to handle it, is to take the most important one
first, the most important one is the owner of the building the owner of the property.
Because what you want is you want to buy the property, you'd like to buy it with a long
delayed closing, so that you can do whatever environmental or everything else you want
to do in the interim period, so that you don't have to pay the whole purchase price without
having any real utilization of the property because you're planning on tearing down and
building as part of the total structure. So that is the most important one. If you can solve
that one. You have to solve that first. And it's easy. When | say it’s easy, conceptually, it’s
easy. Because you've already agreed on the price not agree you, you you you think you

want to pay the number, | think

08:51

we'd rather pay 3 million he wants 3.2 Yeah. All right.

08:56

That's the area of disagreement. In other words, you know, the the area, which will be
called, it's in dispute. He's a true, he’s a three to your 3 million, somehow, that's not to
suddenly block that's not impossible to resolve, assuming that there was nothing else that
you had to be concerned with, which is not the fact here. Right. So the way to handle this
would go is to go would go to the bot to the owner of the building, and say, Yeah, I'd like
JO

JO

JO

JO

so | can buy out of the way for $70,000 or whatever the number is, and let the court
decide. You're going to have to have a judge, you got to convince the judge this is what
did you do? What did you do up to now that's worked very good money. That messy

situation, but it’s soluble?

56:57

Yeah, it is a messy situation. It's a it's a very real situation. It's one that we're dealing with
right now. And we were at one point had agreement with the lawyer to have his fees

assessed by the court.

57:11

Okay, got to consider Did you the wrong way you got a crooked lawyer, you can't deal
with a thief you got to do the right thing is for move on the set of facts that you have
given on this around this particular case, the loi is is not to be trusted for the foreign team,
the fact that he represented you and sold to his partners, that's illegal. You can't do that.
It's tainted, supposed to be independent. So everything is done indicates you got a totally
unethical, unscrupulous and probably crooked lawyer. Or you know what you do when you
have a snake, you better get a sharp stick that solves the snake. And this is what you got
to get trying to negotiate fairly, he doesn't know the word. Right. So what do you do? This
is exactly what | had said, the first thing is we've got to get his attention. And he only was
going to get attention is to hit him with a two by four. Then you get the attention. So
whoever is doing legal work on your half, he's asked to be a total Bulldog, and basically
prepares the documents that summons a complaint or when it doesn't serve it and gives
you the answer. Hey, here's what you're faced with. Do you want me to give it to the
corner? You want to sit down and talk? If the papers Reek? And is there enough in there
that they don't want out? What are they going to do? Talk? That's exactly what would now
they're not talking because they want to talk they talk because they have to talk. They
don't want to take the risk on the other side.

58:56

Okay, okay.

58:58

That's, that's not a solution. But it's it's a tactic.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

01:03

book. Exactly. Yes, you sell 10,000 20,000. But 100,000 is extraordinary. That's fantastic.

01:09

So very royalties truly use. Well.

01:14

Fantastic. Well, what | thought we would do tonight is do a little bit of a deep dive, really
using the book as as an outline for the discussion. And we've got a couple of case studies,
these are real life case studies. And in some ways, you can't make this stuff up. That's true.
A just a more normal type of negotiation. It's involving a purchase of a piece of property.
It's got a couple of wrinkles to it. And then the second one is often what happens you
sometimes to enter into negotiation, not from a position of neutral, but from a trust
deficit. It's already adversarial. People don't know if they can trust one another, or if a deal
can get done. And how do you approach the negotiation in that kind of a situation, which
unfortunately, does happen? So that's the the two case studies. And why don't we

dumped? Why don't we jump right in? And we'll start with number one. Let's go. Okay,

02:17

this is one of the one of the better sessions we're going to have. Because you're dealing
with actual case studies do not look so good. What What do we do now? Exactly? How do
we solve the problem, which is difficult, with more than one person involved, or it's some
type of shady tactics which are being used, which happens not too infrequently,
unfortunately. So let's see, there's a lot to be learned. And especially because these are
actual cases, | didn’t know it until you sent it to me. And | thought he just dropped them

up. But these are real things.

02:55

Alright, so let me set it up here. So the first case study involves the land assembly, it's three
parcels. At the heart of the three parcel assembly is a restaurant called silver spoon, the
owner of the building, his name is Ron and he used to operate Silver Sooon the restaurant.
Eventually, after running it for, | don't know, 20 years sold the restaurant to a good friend
of his his name is Paul. And Paul has been operating the restaurant ever since. It's good

now. So now Ron is leasing property to all the restaurant operator. There's a few years
JO

JO

JO

JO

22:42

grab anything as if you don't have anything for the ownership of the deal. For the owner,
however, you did probably one of the things is the owners know each other. The
restaurant, restaurant guy knows the owner of the building, and we're friends. So they're
going to talk? Yeah, which is fine. But they're not bargaining one against the other or
negotiating on behalf of the other. You separated it out, restaurant, here's your deal.

Owner, here's your deal. And it works. If you don't separate, it's not going to work.

23:21

That's That's brilliant. And yeah, you know, and this is why we have these conversations,
because we had been negotiating with the building owner who had been negotiating on
behalf of the restaurant owner. And it’s not a direct communication. So we don't really

know what the restaurant owner wants. And there's this kind of this blind situation,

23:42

that not only a blind situation, it's fraught with possibly problems, yes, but it's a fraught
with problems, since he's a friend, the owner of the building is is hey, if | get you now, if
your losses would be if you were out of business two years, you lose $100,000. If | get to
300,000, | want some money, right? Because | negotiated good on your behalf. So or the
other way that goes on the owner of the restaurant can say hey, if | can get you more
money for the value of for the sale of your property by being a pain in the ass or a
stumbling block, | want something from me from you. So you have to eliminate that as a
as a asaasa bone of contention by separating them. Now you wouldn't have it if you
didn't if they didn't know each other like each other. Right? So if you had a tenant who is a
pain in the ass and Linda wants to get rid of them, the owner wants to get rid of them.
That's one thing you don't have that. So if they were the usual landlord tenant relationship
was not friendly. It's it they live with each other but it's not friendly. I'm paying too much
rent. I'm not paying love. | could probably with whatever it is, in this instance, you got an
additional wrinkle, they were friends, they were sold. And he gave them this lease, which
was long term and said, | bought you bought the business, whatever it is you got to, you

got to cut that tie in order to negotiate it properly.

25:18

That's brilliant. Now one of the things you talk about in the book, you know, you talk

about three tenants of negotiation, and talk about establishing rapport, you talk about
JO

JO

JO

establishing trust, and the combination of the negotiation is not, it's not a number, like 3.2
million, the combination of the negotiation is satisfaction of the parties, which is
intangible. That's true. So how do we so break that break those apart? In this particular

instance, using this case, study what we're breaking

25:52

apart of the question, really, it's breaking it apart is important? How do you break it apart?
But in order to break it apart? You've got to learn you've got to ask a lot of questions. And
the first one is we've been dealing in the first instance with the owner of the property. And
they said, He says he wants to retire. First question, say, what do you want to retire for?
Why did he answer? I'm sick? and tired of businesses? What | need the money? What? |
want to hear the answer. Because I'm going to I'm going to ask the question to the
answer. So he says, Why retire? | really need to money. For what? What do you need the
money for? Want to hear the answer? How long? Why now? Why did you decide to sell it
out? When he the answer, and when | hear the answer, | can react to what the answer is to
see what my next question is going to be. But it’s only says, | want to retire. | want to x
years old. I've already on | want to retire go to Florida. Why did you pick Florida? What
are you going to do in Florida? I'm going to buy a house. What kind of a house How big?
Your vital cash Are you going to buy? When you see it? See what we're doing? Right? I'm
now getting geared to give the reader give me answers, depending upon what his
question is what he says. So now, once | know what he really wants, | can tailor my trip my
proposal to match what it is. So he says Well, yeah, | want to know I've got enough money
to retire. Alright, suppose it’s supposed to retire this. I'll give you suppose | got you an
annuity where you got $50,000 a year for 10 years, 20 years from the insurance company.
Wouldn't that wouldn't? That your knowledge, you're protected. You got an income for 10
years? You don't have to worry about it. | got to hear the answer. He just No. | throw a
curveball. He said hey, you know that wouldn't be a bad idea. Well, what happens if | buy
an insurance policy? If 50,000 is not enough? | need 100,000. Okay, at least | know where
we are. | know the area of uncertainty. He says he's looking to retire. That doesn't mean

he has to get a lump sum.

28:32

Well, in fact, he said that once he has a lump sum, it’s actually a problem for him. Because

today he's got an income stream and a lump sum. Does he got cash?

28:38
Ollee

PC - August 2020 - Mastermind Call with
George Ross

q@ Jue, 9/1412:16PM @ 1:02:42

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

restaurant, property, lawyer, deal, buy, lease, negotiation, negotiate, owner, money, sell, pay,

mortgage, building, problem, solve, retire, transaction, mule, situation

JO

jo

JO

00:00

Well, we're here at the top of the hour. Welcome, everyone. Welcome. This is our monthly
mastermind with Mr. George Ross. Glad to have you here again. And George, of course, is
best known for his role on the TV show The Apprentice as Donald's right hand man and
advisor for close to 47 years. Executive Vice President within the Trump Organization,
Georgia is the author of two best selling books on real estate and negotiation. This one
right here Trumps all negotiation, which if | understand correctly, George was your course

syllabus, the outline was your course syllabus from when you were teaching at NYU

00:34

is correct. | know they had given the syllabus to the publisher, and he liked it. He said, You
know, this would make a good book, you got to put in some of the stories that they're
actual things that happened. And then | think it will be a very, very good book, and it
would sell well. And it did. It did sell very well. It's really sold out and well over 100,000
copies throughout the United rental world.

00:56

Oh, fantastic. That's, that’s amazing, which is unusual for a book, you know, that nature,

especially a business
JO

JO

it's very attractive for the seller, because he wants to retire, right? And he wants to get
paid. And you're here, what would a cash offer, do you will get paid, just to put the pieces
together may not be when you want it how you want it. And it may not, there were
wrinkles. But if we solved the mall, you bought the property and you can use it. And he
said he’s got the money to go to Florida retire. And then that’s, that’s takes care of that
aspect of the negotiation. And then you got the other one with the owner of the
restaurant. Fantastic. Now, you can also throw in a bonus or something, if you can
negotiate with the owner of the restaurant and you get a great deal. I'll give you I'll make
the price higher, I'll give you part of my benefit. | don't have to pay them. | don't have to
pay to you the restaurant losses for two years. And | can get back up. I'll increase the
price. You gave me a piece of property you have a piece of property with a lease that’s a
difficult lease, you created the difficulty. You created the problem. You gave me this
kaiako Bali lease, | don't know what it’s going to cost. | think it’s going to cost me a half a
million dollars to solve that problem. Fine, | would pay to half a million as the problem is
solved. But it is what what happens if | can solve for less, I'll give you the benefit. I'll raise
your price. I'll give you the benefit over if | can negotiate my way out of the impossible
situation which you created with your friend. Then I'll give you the benefit with throwing
something else on the table. So now you're looking at it and he and he may think to
himself, yeah, | know what my friend wants to do. And yeah, there's a good possibility |
can get another $100,000

39:53

out I'm challenging the loyalty to his friendship

39:56

Muay Thai, it may turn out that he may Be your your spokesman for the friend. It says,
Hey, Joe, what's the lesson? What's the guy’s name? He said? Yeah, you're gonna say,
Paul. Paul, you're losing money on irrational. Why the hell don't you get out? If | can get
you $100,000 cash money and you're closed up tomorrow? Why would you take? No?
Well, how much would you do? 200,000? If | get you 200,000? Would you get out? He
says, Yes, he’s negotiator you'll be here. If you asked for 200,000 by dealing with the with
the tenant in the restaurant, he figures Hey, you are you're good for more. You need me
you pay me 500,000 or a number. whatever other number, you're dealing now, in a
different way. You have one friend negotiating the other to get part of is part of the deal.
If | can make a better deal, | want part of your deal. So you created somebody worse
working on your behalf, he will convince me, he will convince people to make a deal. Why?

Because he's got an advantage of making a deal.
JO

JO

JO

JO

12:10

So what do you got to lose on? Nothing? That's the sale. What do you say Don't forget to
get whether or not you have you can afford it yesterday is when we do want to sell a
property or not. If you want to sell the property and retire, you're giving it You're giving me
the property with a with a problem that you created. You're the one who put this
restaurant there. And you gave options. To if | can't get solved to solve the problem which
you created. | shouldn't be penalized. So I'm worried I'm ready to throw 25,000 50,000 on
the table, to give me an opportunity to try to solve the problem. Why is doesn't that work
for you owner? And he answers it does. There's no defense professor that | love that other
than the fact that he wants to be greedy, why greedy is the problem, | would buy the
property today. For the price that we're talking about, we could agree on it, but you can't
deliver it without the tenant. And who created the tenant who did who gave him this long
term lease with options you did, he's your friend as a friend. So what you have to do is you
separate the friend, the friendship aspect, the corner of the building, from the owner of
the lease. Now, | assume that you could do it, because it makes sense for the owner. So we
now sign a contract that | get an option to buy the property for the 230 7 million,
whatever the number was three, and | get give me six months do either do other things if
you keep the option money, or we have a firm deal and I'll give you a larger deposit. So
what you've done now is you made money in six months and you know you have a good
deal. So you don't have to renegotiate who put all the terms his own terms could be on
the | don't want to | want a two year closing. | don’t want to do it now. And | want to get all
the representations that we get there get get get good title. | want to clean, clean deal,
except for the question the problem we have with the restaurant. And that would you can
make a deal with the owner. So Mickey wants to retire and do what you do actually
nobody's going to buy this place. Buy your building with the with the crazy lease you

could put there who makes the lease at this point you give the guy long term options.

15:00

Well, moreover, it's it's a situation where he's the centerpiece of a three parcel assembly.

15:06

That's, that's you, you don't tell him that. Well,

15:09

he knows that.
JO

JO

JO

All right, how about this good. Let me solve your income stream, right? I'll replace your
income stream, if that’s what you want. And he already told you that you gave me that
the asset. So he says yeah, if | get a big lump sum, | don’t know where to invest in that |
would get my income stream. Hey, I'll solve your problem. I'll get you the income stream.
But you can't have the lump sum. You got to do this over over a certain period of time. So
as part of it, | will get you an annoyed note an annuity from a major company where they
will pay you X number of dollars a year for 10 years, 20 years, or what have you argued is
equivalent of a life insurance policy, which will give you the income that you're looking for.
So | will cover the investment process process possibility or probability which you don't
have to worry. Can you buy it? Sure. In a minute, you can take a certain amount and give
it to a an insurance company and they will give you an annuity payable over year. Two
lots of ways to solve the problem. But you have to know what the problem is. And you hit
one on a head when he says | don’t know what I'm going to do with the money. | like the

income stream. Okay. Let me show you how to get an income stream.

29:57

Yes, yes.

30:00

Now the more you talk and you show flexibility, the easier it is to make an ultimate deal.
Because you're solving or solving, you're answering the problems with the other solution
you're raising. So I'll make it easy for you. How much How much do you need to live on?
You're going to Florida, how big a house you bought him? What a good figure out? What
do you need to live the lifestyle that you want? How much of the 3,000,002 or 3 million are
going to give you are you going to use in one lump sum to buy the house? What happens
at this point, you get a mortgage. So there are lots of ways around the problems, but you
have to understand what the problems are. And in order to understand that you have to
know put yourself in the shoes of the other party as to what they want. Good negotiation
is like finding out what the other side wants, and then coming as close as you can to

making a solution if you don't find out what they want. You're in the dock.

31:04

That makes perfect sense. Now, one of the things that we've experienced over the course

of the negotiation is that the what he wants has changed over time.
JO

JO

17:21

Or it's just nice, but it didn't come. There we go. And then what do you want to do?

17:38

You don't want to have operators, right? lease runs out. Now you have to look at a lease.
And | don't you didn't talk about the terms of the lease? What is the rent going to be? on?
What's the what are the terms of that existing lease? So as part of Dr. buying the give of
getting the option from the owner, you get a copy of the lease. You see how good leases
sweetheart lease orders are the toughness? also could be the fact that the restaurant
operation has changed. And what do you want to knock your brains out for this way? If |
gave you a couple $100,000 and you didn't have to operate the restaurant, that's fine
money to see that you don't have to worry about? Are you going to get customers and
what do you what are you going to do is everything's changed now. Then the other thing
that you can throw in is if you say, | if he says Well, | really want to stay out, | would
exercise the options. That's assuming that he’s aware that he has the options. You may
not know | had the | may not have looked at the lease. He may just know what Yeah, my
lease expires in two years. And he just he but | have options may not remember that he
has the options. What are the options that are higher rental? | don't know what the terms
are, you know, because you give it in get that information from the owner of the property
because you get a copy of the lease. So you know exactly what your exposure is. Now,
assume one or two he says okay, give me X dollars and I'm out tomorrow. Okay, you may
not want to give them the X dollars and out tomorrow because you need time to go to
devote your your due diligence. So they may say, Well, | want you out tomorrow, but |
want to know, any year, six years, six months, whatever it is. So I'll give you this will enter
into a contract now that you give up the lease that you get. I'll give you x dollars in order
to do it. But not an option to buy a lease or I'll buy your lease or an option. | don’t care.
Anyway, you tie up the restaurant portion. The same way you're tied up the ownership
portion. Now, assume that he goes back and he’s your assumptions because we're not
there. He says what Hey, the Bradford restaurant is very, very, very profitable. And I'm
going to exercise my options, assuming he remember He's got options and say, Okay, well,
how about, | replace your restaurant in my new building. If you want to be in the
restaurant business, I'll give you a new brand new restaurant in my new building, I'll be,
you'll be out of business for a couple for a couple of years while I'm in construction. But
then when you come back, you get, we've got a lease you can live with, and you're in a
brand new building, and you got X number of dollars for the inconvenience of getting out

sooner.
JO

JO

JO

remaining on the lease, | think about three years remaining on the lease, but Paul has two
more options on the lease to extend the lease. So he could extend the lease for another, |
don't know 12 to 15 years, something like that. And we would like to purchase the property,
demolish the building, and put up a high rise or mid rise, you know, 910 storey building on
that site out of the three parcel assembly, about 100 condo units, and that property would
have a commercial ground floor with the possibility of reopening that same restaurant in
on the same corner. But of course, during the period of construction, the restaurant would
have to disappear for a period of time. Now, the building owner initially was not interested
in selling eventually he said, You know, I'm ready to sell | want to retire want to spend
more time in Florida. And he came up with a number that we thought was a little bit high.
It's about 20% higher than it should have been on our bill. When you look at it from a
developer perspective, you know, developers don't look at comparable sales or multiples
of net income or anything like that. We look at what can we build on that site and what is
the cost per buildable square foot using a residual land value analysis. So in the end, he
wanted about 3.2 million, but then layer on top of that. He wants us to buy out the
restaurant owner and buy out these remaining options on the lease and give them
restaurant owner a salary for the two years that the restaurant is not going to be
operating with the hopes that at some point, once the new building is built, he would
occupy the new space. So he wants the restaurant owner to be to be compensated for his
time that he's not operating the restaurant. So that's kind of the setup of the situation.
You know, if | was to knock on your door on of your law firm and say, George, looking to

negotiate this deal, here's the problem. How

05:30

do we solve it?

05:31

Exactly. Right?

05:32

That's what you say, what will What do we do to solve? Exactly? Okay, let's understand
the problem. They want the answer. Yeah. Interesting that you have here, you have a
multiple situation, were involved in any one transaction, you got no move, player, different
players, with different ideas and different things that interfere with the overall scheme,
and they have to fall into place in order to make it make it happen. So what you have to

do here, what you have here is basically two different situations, you have the owner of
Die)

the solution is a simple one. When | say simple, in concept is simple, in actuality, it may
not be. It's the | give you a story. Short Story, which comes in mind, though, is this farmer
had a mule. And he said to his friend, | can sell you this mural for $10,000. He says, Why
do | Pintos doors for a mule? He says this mule can do all kinds of mathematical
computations, you can the numbers you're multiplying, as well as the few that are buying
right now. So he says, show me to the farmer that owns the mule goes up and he takes a
two by four and he hits the mule hard, of course, the head and the mule was done. And
potential biases, why would you do that to a variable mule. He says, first | have to get his
attention. That's the key. First, | have to get his intention, his attention, | gotta get the
content, the attention of a crooked lawyer, and whoever is involved with the mortgages,
what they did, | did that you need of another lawyer or a bulldog will bring an outrageous
action against the other lawyer. It could be in writing or can be not a threat, I'm going to
have you disbarred I'm going to have you did whatever it is, I'm going to show you for
fraud, I'm going to show you for taking advantage of an old man, | can. And I'm going to
put a big number on it. The number adapt what I'm going to show you for $5 million. The
property was worth four, | don't care. Now, you prepare a lawsuit, or you threatened a
lawsuit which is going to Reek and stroll fear into the other side, the other into the lawyer
says | don't want to be part of that. And if that somebody was involved with the
mortgages, | didn't want to be part of that either. You're going to throw the whole thing up
in the air that’s going to get their attention. Then what happens from there depends on
how they react. But once you've got their attention, and they want to react, now you've
got them in a negotiating posture. You say, yeah, I'm ready to pay legal fees are
reasonable. But no, no more. But I'm not ready. You can't foreclose a mortgage on money
you never gave me. You see what happens? You're in a negotiating posture. Why cuz you
got their attention. That's the key. What do | have to do to get their intention dragged to
bring before the Bar Association? Do | have to go to his law firm his partners and say this
is going to be in the in the good old papers? To do that you had a senior partner in your
firm that sold a property internally at that point. And you defrauded me. You want to see
that in the papers? Are you going to sound like to your clients at this point? Did you
committed a fraud of extra extra X number of dollars on a client? The publicity is horrible.
Don't show plugins that emphasize or stroke the publicity. It's only a threat at the at the

start, but they have to take it into consideration. Does he really mean it?

53:42

And don't you think if you're going to destroy the law firm, and the relationship of this
crooked lawyer with the law firm, that that might have some value to somebody. So we

got to get we don't want that out. solve the problem.
JO

JO

JO

JO

54:01

So one of the one of the things that exists in our jurisdiction is that the bars the bars, the
law, society, will not rule on on a misconduct issue. If something is before the courts they
want because they don't want to they don't want to contradict what the courts say. So

they want to wait until there’s an error you

54:23

before the court. Okay. So you put it before the court. So not only goes to the judge of the
same thing in the papers, you say, I'm going to bring us before the legal society, but
before that | have to get an adjudication in the in the court. So here | am judge. Here's
what they did. They took advantage of me. They took advantage. They signed all kinds of
papers. They tried to collect a legal fee where they never performed the services or
submitted the thing we did what they did was fair, what do they come, they never sent
appropriate bill. And what you will get you will find that the judge is going to be in your

favor. The last thing judges want are crooked lawyers.

55:07

Absolutely. And this particular lawyer has been before the courts in similar situations

before and he's lost.

55:18

That's it. Now you bring it in your papers, that what exactly you're going to do and the
papers will wreak. Forget that you're going to say, this is what you're saying you got to do.
You make it look terrible. It's only in a complaint. And this is this, what you're going to look
so bad, that you won't, won't know what to do except to come and settle, I'm going to,
hey, | have to come to the table, to me to settle to get out of the mess that you created,

or what | what I'm going to show that you may have created whether win Lose or Draw,
you can stand again, if you're a lawyer, your reputation is at stake. Forget that you may
be disbarred just when you waive your criminal this because it’s criminal act, right? You got
you got a person to sign mortgages, where you didn't give them the money. You didn't
give them any money, you agree to perform services, that’s so different. That's somebody
that's future you don't get mortgage. | understand you're taking security. But it’s only
security for what you really done. So now you have to prove Did you done the work
necessary for whatever your full closing. So if you say he did $70,000 worth of work, where

Show me your hours with a tight look. And if | give you the 70 times when you're finished,
JO

JO

Die)

process and thereby increase his own negotiating leverage. If we wanted to get resolved
quickly, it's ultimately going to be a negotiated settlement where there those foundations
that you talked about rapport and trust are not there. Because it’s already adversarial.

How do we negotiate this?

47:55

Well, wait until | see that then | say you want to buy the property under any circumstance.
You want the property? Yes. Somebody wants the property. We want the property and lots
of property even with a contamination. Yeah, the contamination we already know
potential contamination. Yeah, yeah, we know that that can be a defect, but you will need
to buy the defect is figured into the deal somehow? Yes. Okay. Okay, so that's the first
thing. So now, uh, who is assuming that | would being engaged? Who do | know who's my
client?

48:30

Excellent question. I'm not like solve the problem. So let's, yeah, because again, like the
previous case, there's three parties involved. There's the seller who's actually directly in

litigation with with his former lawyer. Now, let's go.

48:41

Let's, let’s go at this point, | understand. The backup is my client, you're wanting to buy the
property? You'll my client? Yes. Right. Okay, fine. Here it is. | want to buy the property,
ultimately at a price that I'm willing to pay. But it has all these problems. Right? Now, you
go in and figure out how to solve the problems. Correct. And then come back and say,
yeah, you can buy the property, | can, you know, have a contract to buy the property with
a slight defect on the environmental at that for X number of dollars, and I'm satisfied with
that. That's what | want you to do. And I'm ready to put up some dollars to see that you
get paid for what you're doing in solving this problem. Yes, right. Okay, now, that’s fine.
No, we we understand that. Now we look at the others. I'm up. | come in as the lawyer.
What do | do? All right. That's a different set of facts. This point, as a lawyer, the first thing
has to do you have to do is you have to got a lawyer on the other side. It's one step above
or below being a crook, right? All kinds of conflicts of interest. The entered into a contract
with whoever would paper he signed papers or had paper All mortgages signed with
somebody who may have been mental mentally deficient and wasn't properly
represented. Did you have a lawyer do it do it appropriately was, was it an arm's length

transaction doesn't sound like an arm's length transaction correct? In any in any way. So,
