JO

JO

JO

JO

jo

on your the attacks play on Trump's part didn't affect the members. Either way. The
members,

47:31

the members didn't care. They didn't care if it was a it was an initiation fee, or as a matter
of fact, it was it was a good selling point. You have a part interested in the ownership of
the club. Wow. You may never see it. But nevertheless, it's something it didn't happen for
you.

47:50

It was an equity. They had it they

47:53

had debt. That was not equity. was not equity was alone. It was alone. Exactly. Gotcha.
Yeah, | was alone. Now, did Trump come up? You said you didn't come up with that. Did

Trump say it? Did | say | didn't come up with? Oh,

48:13

| thought you did? Did you?

48:16

Know | said the idea of First of all, what happened was that Trump wanted to see how we
could get the use of $50 million without taking it as income. Me too. When you got the 50
mil? That was the answer. How can we structure it? No, so | don't have to pay it as income.
And this was a club. So this would not it was he never had a club before like this? Never
there never was another one. So the question how do we avoid income tax on it? The
answer is make loans. If it's alone, you'd have to worry if you take a mortgage on your
property, there's well you don’t have to worry about taking the money that the mortgagee
gives you and say that's income so that was the advantage to leaving which was big. |
mean, who's you're talking about? What's it worth to get $50 million that you don't have

to pay a tax on that you can do what you want with
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

49:19

so George here's that | put my lender hat on is how's the lender gonna look at that with a

$50 million liability? Well, mainly for other | guess for other assets because he’s

49:31

no wonder what are the other assets at this point? Well, he’s got another two those the
lenders were the were the people to join the club. It was no bank or anything at this point.

Do they people who own the club, they were the lenders.

49:48

So he's got to get repaid. Yeah. So it's siloed on this on this property. There's no other he's

not gonna take any other debt on at all. No non recourse So | structure it. So other

50:01

day, no other day. Now it's possible at some point in time, somebody may buy into me by
up by a pitch position with a view towards buying back the bonds and as huge discount
and then owning the whole facility. That's possible. But that was never the original
intention. The original intention was | got $50 million for 30 years, and | don't pay out, |

don't have to worry about paying taxes. Geez, what's the tax on 50? million?

50:41

Right? Nothing if it's dead.

50:44
Oh, God.

50:45

Okay. So as far as I'm concerned, your concept or what I'm hearing for you, is a variation

of that. The answer is the variation could work.
JO

jo

but it’s, it’s, it's, | understand that, that's, that’s fine. That's, that’s good. But | have to say,
how did you present it? Would you present it in a manner that it would be attractive? The
way | should use you were young, aggressive, or whatever, you got to blow your own horn
knows the key to what you're doing. And try to is branding yourself as the person as the
group that they should be dealing with? Why are you not in this instance, you don't have
the expertise in that area. But that's fine. And it's available, you can't make expertise. You
can't say, well, I've done it 18 times when you have it. But if you In fact, did say what we've
done is we have made a intensive study on the entire industry. And we've developed a
plan, which will be which we believe will be very successful and give you exactly what you
want. And then you have to find out from the owners, what are you looking for a 10%
return to 20%. This is something that they do every developer does in one form or another
depending upon what the developing for. So if in fact they're building building homes,
which are for rental, they're going to have a rental agent. And they're going to turn to the
rental agent, we'll talk we'll do what's necessary to show that this is the place that people
like to rent. And Yay, got the architects and all the all of the paraphernalia that you need
to make it a good a good pitch. That's what you have to do create all everything's
necessary to make an appropriate pitch. Okay, then we answer any questions. Now, one
of the things that that you could do is usually is that work out and think of think of
working on you don't have to do it, but | recommended is do something on a trial basis. So
if you say here's what you're planning on doing, we'll do all of the work. And then if you
decide if you want to use it, and then you come up with it, you can plan and if you can
convince them that it's right, they'll do business with you. But if you're going to get hit for
a little bit, you've got to come up with a lot of money and you have no track record or no
fixed results that you can count on. You're going to get turned off or go somewhere else.
So they want to deal with some entity that has better track records than you you do.

Dope something to consider. Perfect.

39:56

I've already got my I've got the next question for next month already.

39:59

Bye. What | would what | would suggest and do it this way, put put together your business
plan. Assume that you're dealing with me and I'm the developer of the play, | got the
pipeline, and you want to in you want to convince me why as your use you put it together,
send it to me. I'll take a look at it. I'll critique it. And it’s nice part is it doesn't cost you
anything. Because I'll do it gratis, assuming it’s not 100 pages now, and then would it be a

learning experience for you for me and also for everybody else involved with Victor
JO

JO

JO

56:28

Here's the crazy thing to turn into golf is all the golf courses are full here. We don't worry
off courses. They're all full. And they're not building more golf courses. Because there's
such a high demand for housing.

56:42

golf courses, huge golf courses. Huge, huge land. You're talking about several 100 acres.
And it's it's very expensive. And I'm not so sure. Not sure. What are the things that | don't
know the the the really longevity of golf courses. Because the concept of being members
of a golf course or were you spending five hours, a lot of the younger people don't want to
spend five hours to go on the golf course. But you were not before | left Trump. He told me
that he what he was planning on doing was he's not building any more buildings. But he
wants to he wants to buy golf courses. And he asked me what | thought | said done like it
is a great idea. Because what you're doing is you're land banking, and golf courses, as you
know them usually cannot exist. The members get on it. At this they can’t that got to put
the reboot improvements in and everything else. So what you could do is where you have
an ownership of the club, you can go in and say here up, I'll buy everything that you got
for X number of dollars and you'd have a club you can use for whatever you want. And at
some point in time if you don't use it I'll build housing or get a better use of land. And

when | left in 2015 at that point he had already 2018 golf courses of assorted sizes and
shapes. That's very successful. And bought them really cheap. When | say really really
cheap that they that you have the one and we would wonder we bought in Washington
which is not Washington is Virginia. Alright, what 800 acres 800 acres two golf courses
with a clubhouse with members $80 million for the whole shootin match. Wow. That's
cheap, of course. But the members they don't do good and good right. So | agreed I'll
leave you you can be managed you can stay your pay rate you're paying what you're
paying now for three years. At the end of the three years when | made the improvements
you decide if you want to be a member of the club or you want to leave at he has good
facilities, good opera, good restaurant facilities, everything to begin with a wonderful
business.

59:13

actually know somebody is a member there at the one there, Virginia. So I've got an open
invite as soon as the things open.
JO

JO

JO

JO

17:02

A bit protected. Betting a lot of what is claimed to be but it also depends on how good
your property your management agreement was, should be good. Money should in fact,
should basically be going into an account, which can be which the owner of the property
can can get into not just to sit not just a property manager. Property Manager basically is
a fiduciary and as should be held to that responsibility. Okay. Okay. Let's go on to the next
one.

17:36

Yes. Next step, you had a sec question?

17:39

Yeah. So second question. One of the markets that we invest in, the city has an incentive
for investors, where they'll pay for 80% of the cost for lead based paint remediation. And
they'll also do a free assessment on the property. We're currently using this program to
remediate the lead in a vacant house. And the city inspector asked us, basically, hey, do
you have any other vacant properties or occupied properties where you'd like us to do the
assessment on I'm interested in this program. But my concern is that if we do it on an
occupied house, that this might open us up to liability. So I'm kind of caught because one
side of me is like, you know, we don't have we don't have another properties. Any tenants
getting sick from lead, they're not complaining about it, we haven't been alerted of it. And
the city is offering this program where they can investigate it for us. But the risk to my
investors is that if if a tenant finds out the house does have lead based paint, that we
could potentially be opening up a can of worms for lawsuits. | talk to my property
manager today. And they said, you know, maybe we should just focus on the vacant
houses first. And if there's ever any type of even any tenant that brings anything up to our
attention about lead based paint, then we explore that, but we don't really go in and |
don't know what the right analogy would be rattle the cage ahead of time so just kind of
want to see if if you were in my shoes, what would you do if if you had a choice to go with

this program? Or just use it for the occupant of the vacant houses only?

19:19

No, you can't You won't? What's the problem? The basic problem that you have here and
i'm familiar quite a bit with this with it with this type of situation. You already opened the

can of worms you already are interested in Oh you know what from the city with this blog,
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

35012

| haven't built any but they've built. Okay. | want to be a part of their community to offer

their community.

35:19

No, that’s it. But But this, if you haven't gotten it, well, we've done it. But now what you
have to do is you have to basically indicate the research that you've done. In other words,
that you set up this research to what what is needed in a community. So we've, we've gone
through some of these developments and ask them what they wanted, what the what
they this, we've looked at the successful ones, and this was the reason for that success.
Right now, that's all good information. They'll change based on the on the information we
got from successful developers at these communities, we have come up with a better

plan. Here it is ABCD. You didn't say you did it. But you come up with a better plan. So
what you took was existing facilities or plans that didn't look like they made money, and

you've improved upon it? That's unique. With me,

36:18

yep. 100%.

36:20

Okay, that's what you need. We can do this. We've done the research | deserve. We know,
what what what is required in these facilities? meals, whatever it is good, depending on
where you're going in assisted living? Or is it just a senior housing. And also, you look at
what a dealing was specific age group 55, over 75, or over whatever it is. So you have to
come up with a Chinese menu for any type of development along these lines. But in order

to do it, you have to know what they're planning on building.

36:59

We know that we have that already. Okay, so that's, that's where we add the values to
that, that build out that they're doing. Okay, but

3708
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

During George, everybody. Yeah, Matt, got a bit of a lot of questions, they may see me
cheating down reading it. But recently, we've started an early discussion with a private
fourth generation family business. We have a strong development pipeline, they currently
have about $2 billion of potential products in their pipeline based on lead that they've got
currently acquired. They're currently building about 350 homes a year in house as part of
their developments. We believe we have something unique to offer them in the realm of

senior housing.

23:3/

What's that? been like? What made you think you have something what's unique?

28:43

It's more than just senior housing. It’s actually assisted living housing. So I'm like,

28:50

hey, let me use this. Let me just interrupt you. | don't know why we would change. It's not
there's what's unique about it. So once you meet what is unique to you do that would be

attractive to them that they don't do.

29:02

They're not in that area at all. They just do residential or multifamily in some commercial

building.

29:07

Fine. Okay, understand why at this point, what do you have to offer that nobody else has

the same experience can offer them?

29:17

They will actually have the experience in this area. They can build it, they couldn't run it,

they would not be able to operate it.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

50:56

| don't know. | mean, if you

50:59

have, but the main thing is that you have to have the people that are willing to sign up
membership. Yeah. Cheerio for the basically the to abide by your concept. That's fine.
Now, one of the things that's available, from what I'm understanding from Joe is this is if
you met if you're building golf courses at this and running golf courses, to use the
simulators, the golf simulators, as part of your selling package. That's great. Was it a good

report?

51:39

No, it's just the simulators run during golf courses. It's just the simulator.

51:43

Okay. So you don't have anything to do with the golf courses?

51:46

No, no. Is this okay? Yeah. So it's Yeah,

51:49

but nevertheless, you can you can that what you're doing is something which would be
attractive to owners of golf courses. Yeah. Because the fact they now getting the
additional inducement for members. It's like a club that has a good gym, you're going to
be members, because in fact, a good facility. And the golf simulators which have they're
so sophisticated today, that is very important, vary from | would like it. So would you pay
for that membership? Instead of paying for a gym membership? You're paying for a
membership to be able to use the simulators, on a constant basis or periodic basis? It's
and the answer is yes. And is it? Would it be attractive to do owners of golf courses? Yes.

52:41
JO

JO

JO

29:24

Okay, no, no, you're not. You're saying no, they can’t. They could, but they don’t have the
expertise to do it. Exactly. You You're watching what I'm driving, | think you're driving at
and stop me if | am wrong. But here you take, they would develop they would create the
facility and you would show them how to run it on a profitable basis and take all the risks
of the operation from them. And they will be involved primarily with the construction. Am |
right?

29:53

Yes or no? Well, we knew they could. They could technically do that if they want to do
that.

30:01

We understand it this way. So anybody, anybody that owns a piece of property can
develop it. Correct. But they have a plan. Ultimately, they're going to develop one family
houses, they're going to build rentals, they're going to condominiums, that's the plan,
they're also going to build it and run it. So they are going to have to get tenants to occupy
the space, and they're going to get the income, the rental income from the tenants. That's
also done another type of doing it, or they're going to lease the space out, which is what,
so what the planning knew there were all kinds of variations of plans that can be done,
that's fine. What I'm trying to say, and you're on the right track, is if if | were the developer,
and | had all these properties, why would | deal with you? What are you going to what are
you going to do to take away that | don't have to do that make it worthwhile? The time. So
what I'm basically saying is that | would like to see or not like to see what | think is
appropriate, is for you to have a business plan, which says, here's what we do. We're
talking about if they're handling of over assisted living, or they're handling for senior
citizens, and that's probably and that's a big field that | and | live only get bigger, you
know, because people living longer. So that you say, here's what we do. See shake kit, we
take your property, assume you're building a facility for assisted living. All right, then,
here's what we do. What do we have, we have the management, we have the expertise,
we have the facility, we set it up so that we have direct contact with medical facilities, if
they're needed, we have the nurses on site, whatever it is that you do is your part of your
plan. So that you can come up with a plan for whatever they have in mind in what they
are building. If in fact, it's something which is in your area of expertise. And show you said
he would say you have something unique to offer? Or which unique could be your skills?

What's your track record? How have you done this before? Who's going to vouch that you
JO

_)O

JO

07:35

Yes, | think the suit is good. And | think anyway, broad. | think the fact that he did the big
did they these media can censor what is good, what they're going to pass or what they're
not going to pass is horrible. | don't think they should have the right to censor it. And |
think | think something will be done. In other words, you got this, you have major media,
really influencing the minds of the above the electorate, not not in an impartial manner.
But the way the way they want it. And you never saw that before. And it's it's, it’s terrible.
We don't have a you know, you really don’t have what you call a free press. No, we didn't
go when we circle whichever way they want. And then that's that's it. The worst part? The
worst part is, if you are not with them, you talk against them. They don't want to hear
what you have to say. And that’s that's horrible, but used to be that people could express
your opinion. | don't agree with you. But | understand you can express your opinion. And
then once somebody once wrote, | don't know what it was. It says | don't agree with what

you say. But | will fight to the death your right to say it. You don't see that anymore.

09:01

Yeah, that's absolutely true. So actually, it’s funny, you mentioned this, because she did a
podcast episode on this very topic. It’s coming out tomorrow. And it's very interesting to
look at the way social media algorithms function. Because they are designed to maximize
your time on the platform. So the longer you spend scrolling, the more advertising they
could present to you got it. And if your interest is in, let’s say, model train sets, you're going
to see more model train sets. If you believe that the earth is flat, you'll see more of that
and so on. So if you happen to have a conservative viewpoint, you'll see more of that if
you have libertarian or liberal or whatever viewpoint you'll see more of that. So there
tends to be a lot of confirmation bias inherent in the way social media algorithms work.
But it goes one step further and this is what's shot. King, the the platform's have said we're
trying to present a more balanced view. So now they're presenting the opposing view. But
what gets presented is not the moderate opposing view, but the extreme opposing view,
which then further hardens, the perspective that they held originally. Yeah. So it's

fascinating to see how this is playing out?

10:27

No, it’s not. It’s just not you don't see them reporting news or information the way it is, it's
the way they'd like to slant it. Yeah, depending upon whether they're for or against. And |
do think you're going to find a major change, that | think this section 230 is going to be

eliminated. And it's going to be the media is going to be liable for what they say. They're
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

Oh, yeah. We've already got one club signed up.

52:44

Yeah, it brings, it’s interesting because it would be a major expenditure on their part. If
they put it in, alright, if they buy it and use it. And meanwhile, if somebody else is ready to
birdie to put it in and say, here it is, I'll give it to you for the members. And we sell it on a
usual basis. Like you're putting in a gym equipment, somebody who's in the gym. In this
case, you're using the the simulators. And they are great. | don't use one anymore,
because by age | don't play golf. But my son in law does. And he's got a simulator at a
Trump course. Right at the simulator Crash Course. And it's very much in demand. But
they pay separate for it. No, it's just what they it's been Well, yeah, but you pay to join the

club. Yo, should you have to go you how you pay? You're

53:40

almost like reciprocate membership. Yeah,

52:43

you pay him to pitch party your membership. The idea is very attractive. Very attractive.

And something he can say fine. I'll put in the more than one simulator. Depending on what
the need is. So you know, you're furnishing a service, which they would they don't have? Or
if they did have, it’s expensive. And they don't want to put it in. They don't know what it is.

Can somebody that would do it without the without the exposure. They'd love it.

54:10

Yeah. Yeah, that's what we thought we were getting a lot of a lot of traction on it already.

We're not even open. So it’s you will

94719

you get more out of it. Because | anticipate that based on the technology which exists. It'll
only get better. Yeah, more. Right. Did you have it? The artificial intelligence is very key is
fantastic. And they'll build it into the equipment you'll build it into the future. So somebody
not only to have What a shot they hit, where did it land up? What did they do wrong? Did

they hook it left? Did they hook it right in what up what was what was in the maximum
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

13:11

that you can't you can't be in it certainly inappropriate for me to make any
recommendations on a matter which I'm not that familiar with. And I'm not in the | don't
know, the parties involved other than you. And what's going to happen in a court case, |
don't know. That's up to up to the lawyer. But if somehow you can settle this matter, by
paying some money somewhere along the way, that's the way to go even because it'll
save it in the legal fees. And the most important thing is you got to get it out of your mind.
This is something you're going to live with every day, should | do it, I'm not going to do it.
And it's not the only the only ones that make money and litigation lawyers. | never
objected to lawyers making money. Okay, but as far as clients are concerned, it’s not
necessarily the way to go litigation is not the answer. But if you have you got the lawyer if

you trust Him, whatever he says goes, as long as you can pay for it.

14:11

Excellent, thank you.

14:12

Yeah, but I'll never say never second guess lawyers, I'm not on not their loser Do you got to
start at the beginning to all the parties and see all the facts and then make some type of
a WC and then you got another problem? The person on the bench? Or who's got an A for
you, or jury, whatever it is in too many in in, in possible situations where you just don't
know. What takes place litigation is not to me has never been the answer. Okay, what's
next?

14:48

Well, just just to be clear, George. So | mean, from in this particular instance, if you
remember this was that case where the property manager was withholding funds. Yeah. In
appropriately and

15:00

When properly, | don't understand it holding funds at this point, that's a crime.
JO

JO

JO

_)O

jo

JO

trajectory, all of that inflammation which is there which which gives them gives the user of
the equipment everything you want to virtual He's working. He's on the golf course

virtually. And everything is virtual work works fine. It's concept | think is great.

55:10

Yeah, it's a lot of fun. There's a lot of men in the northeast already doing something
similar. And it’s nothing surprisingly here in Nashville and we're just, we're, we're gonna be

the first so it’s gonna be awesome.

55:21

Well, Nashville, maybe got to give guitar lessons to go with it.

55:26

We've got a few musicians that we know that can can help out. Stop me. Yeah.

55:33

| love Nashville at that point. My blood was blue Trace Adkins. It would because he was on
the apprentice. Yeah. And Nashville. | went to the grand old Opry. Yeah, but | bought
tickets, great tickets to go there and pay to paint the front. And then when | met, | met
him. He says, Come backstage and we'll go to eight the tickets. And the one that has been
said, thanks very much for the contribution was great town.

56:01

There's a lot of fun, a lot, a lot of fun. We love it. So hopefully, pretty soon,

56:07

though. And not only that, at this point, the area is booming. The concept is booming.
People are looking for that type of release is fill down Hold tight, but also upbeat. So |
have a people that | know that have moved to the Nashville area because they like the

community, the area.
JO

JO

JO

JO

Die)

05:33

On this vein, can | ask a question and said, of course, you're George. Guess you are a

couple years older than me. Seen?

05:42

A couple years. Couple.

05:45

| take a lot of vitamins. But we're close. Anyway, point is, have you ever in this nation,
you've lived McCarthy era? Have you ever seen anything? Like what's going on? even
close? No. No, |

06:03

think he's anything. No, nothing. But | think one of the major processing problems always
like, this is social media. Yeah, it’s big. We never had that before. So there are so many
people on on Instagram and Facebook, and Twitter. And that goes back and forth. One
feed on one another. People look at what they what somebody else says they like it. |
don't like it or they carried on. And it's it's like a game of they used to because used to
play a game called telephone. | don't know if you're remembering. Yeah, you started out
with a word. And by the time it got around, the thing was entirely nobody remembered
what the word was. And that’s you've never had that before. And you've got the media,
which is all over the place. You're either the media, one stations for Trump, the rest of
them are anti Trump. And they don't even want to discuss anything else. They're not
media anymore. They don't they're not newscasters, they have a strictly political po do
quantities in one way or no, you never had this before. And it's it’s entirely different. So |
don't know, you know, how it’s going to be resolved. But it will be resolved after the

election. | don’t know which way or another.

07:25

I'm picking up on what you said. Yeah, | see the Department of Justice just announced a

suit against Google. Do you have any thoughts on that?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

45:43

So that case, the selling point was not it was an investment. The same point was it was

gonna, you're gonna pay an initiation anyway, that’s just the structure of it. They didn't

45:51

the selling point was it was they were willing to pay as initiation they will find. Yeah. So this
is that the selling point was for as a concert is, yeah, it’s what you pays in initiation. And
look, you got a bond. The bond is bears interest, but it's not payable on a current basis.
But at the end is 30. Is your bond is due. This is fine. They never expected to get anything
anyway.

46:22

So it just, you know, you get these millions of dollars that are out there in bonds. | mean,

it's you get a it means it could be any intention of paying them or is he just Oh, no.

46:32

What anybody can pay bonds if you got the money? Yeah. Now, is there any doubt? Any
doubt? If you wanted to, you could buy those bonds back at a tremendous discount. We're
not big bonds. | don’t remember whether it's 3% or 2%. | didn't bear but a lot of interest.
Yeah. But you have to understand the person that had the bond never expected to get
paid. So now if you went back and say I'll buy it up, if 10% on the dollars, why not? That's
more money than they ever expected.

47:07

What was the benefit of structuring it as bonds if nobody ever expected to get paid?

47:13

Did not because they didn't do structuring it was purely on Trump's aspect. We now had

the use of the money on which you did not have to pay a tax It was a loan

47:23
JO

JO

JO

JO

of certainty? Or do we just say, sit on the sidelines and wait till everything gets back to

normal before you do anything?

01:47

Well, is there good pitcher? Good question. | don't know. Getting back to normal, but
some degree of normalcy. So things have to settle down and small cash to clear. And |
think a lot of that will happen. two things. Number one, the election. And when that's over,
we'll see what comes out of that. | don't know. But we'll see. And the other thing is there
have to do something in connection with COVID. And | think having a, a certainly a
vaccine with salt, which would go a long ways. But also basically the The good thing

about it is is the COVID is that the death rate has not really gone up. hospitalizations
haven't gone up either. So it’s it seems to be winding down somehow. | don’t know. | am
not an expert by any means. And | think as far as investors are concerned, right now, hold
on to your money and wait. No, | find that's my feeling. | do think things will get what they
have to get better. in my estimation, | think at that time, there'll be good opportunities. But

right now it’s a it's a really a mess.

02:54

So it's a little too soon to put your chips on the table is what you're saying.

02:59

Yeah, you don't know where it's going. There’s | don't know anything particularly energy
want to invest in right now at this time living futures? Really, you know, great. | don't think
that time is that far off. But right now, it's just, you just don't know what the the monies
that have to come up with people that are out of jobs, unemployment, there's too many
uncertainties to really be attractive now to make investments you don't know. | wouldn't
know what to invest in at this particular point in time. But | do think within a month or two
months, you will know, you see things start to get back to some degree of semblance of

water. That's my feeling.

03:42

And we've talked about before the need for stimulus to protect the economy from this

economic shock.
JO

one property that you have you have lead based paint. Now once you know you have that
you have lead based paint. Now that's a whole different ballgame. That when if
somebody gets sick and you know you add it, you got a lawsuit and you're not going to
win that lawsuit. We've had this many times with a guy with contaminated soil. The
problem is once you know about you'll get rid of it. You can't do it. financing. You can't do
mortgaging there's just anybody that's involved with a contaminated situation, you never
get rid of it. So that's where you are. So the my advice suggestion is, yeah, the got the city
or the municipalities ready to give you 80%. Good pay to get to 20%? Do it, get it cleaned
up, and then you are here, you're here. Oh, look, we have it, and you've got an extra selling
point that you can sell to a vacant apartment, we have taken care of the lead situation.
And therefore this apartment is better because we don't have lead into pipes or lead
paint. That is you got to gotta bite the bullet. no way around it. This is it. And it's the
amazing part is that I've seen is they can go back years. And to go back to anybody that
knew this situation existed. So it's not something you did. It's something you're aware of,
very similar to what what happened with a spouse with a spouse this expose is that what
used to be a fireproof material used? Good, it was there for years and a very good. And
the problem was, if you left it closed, you were okay, because it couldn't couldn't escape.
Once you opened up any part of it, you had a duty to mitigate and take the stresses out,
not the same with less than two pipes. Because land at that point, you're going to show
your kids all of a sudden need to the children or are going to have lead poisoning. Or
you're going to have some doctor that says this is why you had a condition that we can't
explain at him how to be because there was letting the pipes you don't want to go, you
don't want to have that hanging over you and end up with a lawsuit. You're not going to
win the lawsuit because you should have known. And you do know. So what you've
indicated here is hey, you know what, and unfortunately, you have some somebody or so
method is ready to pay 80% that's an unusual usually you don't have anybody that
dreaded to pay anything you're just on the hook for. So | would take advantage of the
80% and clean up your clean up to buildings and use that as a selling point. Right now
also, the money that you're paying at that point has got to be legitimate expense which
you can take off taxes or what have your improvement and makes you look good makes
you look like a hero Hey, | took care of this. You can't walk away from it. Not Not Not at all

don't even try.

22:43

Good point. And just to clarify so it's it's not a like a multifamily or commercial property.
They're they're individual parcels of houses, but they're not contiguous there. Okay, so
that
JO

JO

Yeah, absolutely. Top notch. Yeah. | guess was wrote.

1:01:17

Yes. Well, thank you. Another great evening. We'll talk to you again next month,

1:01:23

but keep the questions coming.
JO

JO

JO

22:56

doesn't make a difference you now you know, or have reason to believe that there is
contamination is lead in the air in the pipes or in the lead once you have that knowledge
or you should have known you you're stuck. If you say | didn’t know anything about it, you
got a chance to get it off. But once you know now that it's there and you've seen it
because they're another house and you're taking advantage and another half now you
know you're stuck and I'm not saying it's not bad it's like this is some This is some situation
which would be correct to the fact that she taught her to take care of the pipes at this so
it's a situation which any homeowner is it already was purchasing homes old homes,
they're going to have this and you guys situation so if you're buying something new fresh,
you're going to check it is it led into pipes, visitors pestis or any contamination in the soil.
That's why you have soil tests and a whole bunch of all the tests to make sure that you
don't have the situation. But once you know about it, you're gonna dad don't you can't
you can't get away from it, even if even if you tried, all you have to have is that you know,

knew it existed or should have known it existed. And then that's that's the end of the story.

24:22

Now George with a larger property, let's say you have an actual verified contamination
like a trichloroethylene or something like that. Then you would have a burden to also get

a sign off letter from the EPA and attach that on title correct?

24:37

Correct. Correct. You're gonna have to know Yeah, yeah, also have you're gonna have to
look at wherever you know that it exists. Every every purchase of property basically is
going to have some type of a soil report. And you're going to have to see what the results
of this what the soil report work either they come up clean if they have tricot data, you
cleaning materials or anything, there's any oil, gas, whatever it is bullet, you got to take,
you got to take care of it and get it mediated and get a certificate. Yeah, whatever it is,
you dug it up, you took it out, or you put me in a situation that it wasn't harmful, but it
can't ignore. It not only tracks the Naira goes to you as the owner, it goes to the mortgage
to the holder of the mortgage. And it goes to every other landowner, the people you
bought it from. So it's it's one of the situations that they look to nail anybody that had
knowledge of it, or should have had knowledge of it, not necessarily the one who created
it, but had knowledge of it. So if you have a piece of property, and there's a hazardous
chemical, which leaked onto your property from a half a mile away, you're still responsible

for you had nothing to do with it, but it’s on your property. That creates liability. So what
Ollee

PC - October 2020 - Mastermind Call with
George Ross

gp Jue, 9/1412:12PM © 1:01:26

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

pay, property, golf courses, simulators, bonds, building, money, trump, situation, facility, club,

people, question, buy, point, george, liability, nashville, property manager, members

JO

JO

JO

00:02

Okay, well welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind call with George
Ross. George, of course, is well known for having been in business for over 60 years.
Having taught at the law school at NYU for over 20 years, best selling author on two
books on real estate and negotiation, famous for his role as co star on the TV show The

Apprentice and married for how many years? George?

00:29

A lot of years, too many.

00:35

Well, thanks, so great to have you here. And of course, you want to get out your notebooks
and take lots of notes because the sessions always packed with wisdom. And we're gonna
dive right in. That's cool. Okay, so George, we're entering of second wave with COVID-19.
Right now. We've got businesses all over the world being mandated to close down. Second
time, we have my goodness, who would have thought armed militias standing outside
polling booths in the United States of America, not a third world Banana Republic. We've
got the possibility, certainly of social unrest and conflict surrounding the election, possibly
post election. We've got a quarter of hotels in default on their notes, we've got
commercial businesses retail and office in in really bad shape. How do we communicate

with investors? Because investors love certainty, a path forward that has any semblance
JO

JO

JO

JO

know what you're doing? They're just the answer. That's what you have to do that would
what should be done in order to entice this the developer to deal with you, hey, I've
represented so many people. And so here's the development, the housing situation, the
senior housing, which | put together, and here's what we did, we have a, b, c, d, we cover
the food aspect, we cover the man the management, we cover amenities that they need,
where they have all types of things that agree with their movies, everything that makes it
a very good people would want to be in that facility. So now you build it owner. And we
run it so that you make money on it. And you have to show them that you can do this. And

that requires expertise and a proper explanation.

33:22

So we do have all that. No, good,

20.24

good. But it didn’t mean yet when you say you have all that. I'd like to look at it. Okay, I'd
like to look at it, whatever you want to be the assume now for your purposes, that I'm the
developer, I'm the one that owns all this property, and you want me to hire you. Give me
what you give me what you what you show me is still why | should use you. And I'll critique
it for you. But | could take it for you. So the the key to that situation really is how you
present it and don't present too much. Leave it flexible. So the Dow they say yes, you can
do it. And they want to deal with you. And you can answer their questions. But in order to
do that, you have to know what their questions are. So I've seen too many brochures or
development plans, where you answer a lot of questions which nobody ever asked. And |
assume what what any developer watch, how do | make money? What's my end game my
selling these sites or am | developing and what am | doing? And that's partly what you're
what you're doing is saying good luck. I'm involved with the end of the management at

this and | can show you how to maximize the financial return. That's beautiful. Now

34:59

these develop Because these builders, they believe in building communities. And part of

this actually can bring value because there's actual community.

35:09

How many communities have you built?
JO

JO

JO

JO

not going to be shielded from liability just because they have that right. Right. Now they
can, they can put whatever they want on and nobody will trust them. But they choose
what they put on. Right. That's the problem. But | anticipated that a good day is a day of
reckoning, jack kadoorie judgment coming for Google, and Twitter and all of the others.
They have gotten too big. They make a pot full of money on the platforms. And the if you
look at what they bought our own, wow, they're all over the place in controlling everything

that you hear receive. which is which is frightening. Yeah. Yeah.

11:40

Okay, well, let's, let's go to questions. Sep has a couple of questions. Why don't we go to

use up?

11:47

Victor? Hi, George. Is that how you? I'm good. Thank you for taking my questions. So first
question, this is in regards to the the lawsuit that you guys have been so helpful and
generous, and just significantly helped me out the last year. So this is in regards to getting
an expert witness, my litigation attorney is assisting me and he says that we need to hire
an expert witness eventually. And he's saying it's basically just to be able to hire an expert
that can compare what the market occupancy for the properties that were affected by
this crooked property manager should be compared to the low occupancy that we
incurred when we were with this company. The good news is the data that we have for the
properties, we show high occupancy before we bought the bad management company on
board, the occupancy dipped during their tenure, then it went back up when we let go of
them. This is something that | think my attorney is going to be handling. He hasn't

delegated it to me and said | need to worry about it. But |

12:52

just wanted to ask a basic question, Seth, do you trust your lawyer? | do. That's the end of
the question. That's the end of the story. trust him, let him go carry the ball. Okay, if you

can settle this matter of settling.

13:07

So it’s not something that | should even waste an ounce of energy on, just let him know
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

said if you anyone dealing in real estate, you've got to have some kind of some type of
environmental impact study? Did you can rely upon borings and whatever else was
necessary to show Yeah, | don't have it, or | didn’t it, whatever it is, I've taken care of it. You

can't ignore it.

26:32

And it's the unbounded nature of that liability. Yeah.

26:39

It's the unbounded nature of the liability because you the illness that it creates, only
somebody now has had a an allergic reaction to a chemical which is in the ground that
you knew of, and now all of a sudden develops cancer. Wow, there you are. Now, and they
have had that the cancer had nothing to do with the material in the ground. But you, the
fact that it might have is a sufficient to create the liability. It doesn't have to be a direct
causal connection. That's a situation that you got on environmental studies, and anybody
involved with real estate, you have to be aware of that. That doesn't happen that often.
But you have to be aware of it. But if you're buying a piece of property, and it was a gas
station, a lot of next side of it, you better be sure that your soil is okay. or clean. So
whenever they try my foot, what are the tri methyl chloride, whatever did what they use

to clean

27:47

tarquinia? Natural dry,

27:49

whatever it is, yeah. Okay, well, | got a little bit of information on that one. Thank you.

27:58

Okay, awesome. But let's go to Matt.

28:03
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

15:05

Correct.

15:06

That's a crime. You can't You can't withhold funds from somebody. That's the worst where
the case should go, you got the improper holding of funds, that would be after him that
would go for penalties, or he’s holding on money that belongs rightfully belongs to you.
Right staff, that that's just that’s a different lawsuit. Whether whether he's being reacted
properly, properly, as far as running the management, that's a different issue, not in the
title, a hold on the money that belongs to you. And if you go that if you go that route, |
think you'll find success, you'll get the money, whether you win or win the lawsuit, | don't
know where you started, you're certainly entitled to the money, you can't hold back
money that belongs to another party, there are all kinds of laws against that. He is a

fiduciary. And if | do here is cannot hold funds from their clients.

16:05

George, I'm a property manager. So let me let me pose something. So if in your
management agreement, you have something to the effect of, you know, there's an
escrow account we're holding, and upon termination of the relationship, we're allowed to
withhold from that escrow account any monies owed to us, and the balance will be
returned to you. Could that be if you've got something like that in your management
agreement, which | assume you do? Yeah, that would be the point of it. So it's not quite
withholding someone else's money. It's a legitimate claim that, hey, you really do owe me

this money? We agreed that | can hold it. So that

16:50

point, what you do is put whatever is in dispute, you put aside and the rest of it, you've got

to go to you.

16:58

Yeah, isn't it | see it the same way? Yeah, you titled
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

jo

03:52

| think it's good good if you're in a to a unbelievable political situation right now with
what's going on. It’s It's It's two different parties at this point. It's it's a Trump and
everybody else. That's what it boils down to. If you hate Trump, you all that’s the end of it.
If you feel if you're like Trump, that's that’s part two, that will get cleared up with the
election in one way or another. | don't know what's going to come out of it. whether or not
there's going to be unrest. It just just don't know. We've never seen an election like this. So

you don't really know.

04:31

Absolutely. | mean, we're hearing about voter turnouts and record numbers for advanced

voting. Yeah,

04:36

yeah. But voter turnout, voting hopefully voting for | don't know | don't know there's too
many to too many things which are which are in play, and don't have an answer, but we
will have it shortly after the election. Things were out one way or another and then you'll

be in a position to see which way to go.

05:01

My wish and my hope is that we have a clear outcome for the election. If it's very close,

then that could that could be actually damaging for democracy. Yes,

05:11

yes, absolutely. Absolutely. But well, we'll know in a couple of weeks.

05:17

Yes, indeed. Okay. As always fascinating. We could not have scripted 2020 if we tried.

05:26

No, absolutely. Nobody would believe it.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

41:36

got you now.

41:36

There we go. Yeah, okay. So we're gonna change subjects here you get from real estate to
what I've found out is one of your favorite subjects as well as mine, which is golf. | gave
Victor the heads up on this one. So after the secret syndication event, read your book on
strategy. And that was fascinating because as you know, my background is commercial
lending and love strategy, love investing my new projects, we got the the the paragraph
about Mar a Lago, how you, you and Trump negotiate that there's a paragraph in there
that paralleled what I'm doing for my new project and involving golf. And | want to ask
you about that. And see if you can recall any of the details because it was quite

fascinating, quite brilliant of how you funded Mar a Lago with the members.

42:30

Thanks anyway. But Kate, | can't take the credit for funding mera Lago is how it was done,
| can, | certainly recommended it when | went to discuss it, that it was appropriate
because the purpose of Mara Lago was he had 200 members, we're putting up $250,000,
effectively as an initiation fee to be part of the club. But he didn't want to if it was an
initiation fee, it was fully taxable. So he made it a type of a loan situation. You don't have
to do it. So now what you had had the advantage of having $50 million of working capital
and paying no tax on

43:10

it. Which is brilliant. so brilliant. Yeah.

43:16

What do you think he had me there for?

43:20

| know that para further was like, Oh, my gosh, | just realized that that was
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

59:25

Now invited this what | do. The interesting part is you could this could be the Potomac is
there and you couldn't see it. So Donald took down 2000 trees. Well, yeah, it took down
2000 trees on a potato you can see the Potomac from the clubhouse and all over the
municipality. So you can't take down the trees and | said what do you want me to do? Put

them back? They're already down. But, you know,

2900

that's the ask for forgiveness versus asking for permission mentality.

1:00:00

Correct. Correct. So what are those was three, | don't remember what it was, but pay
something very miniscule what you do what you have to do to run your facilities. So you're
on the right track. Good luck.

1:00:13

Thank you. Just to put some math behind that. That comes to 51 cents a square foot for

those two properties on the Potomac, and the and the clubhouse was for free.

1:00:25

| didn't think it was that high. Oh, and two golf courses. Yeah. Yeah. Well operate well then
built. Now you didn't have to didn't have to build a thing. repaired the clubhouse and
change it from Brown to white and put turned failing and built a tremendous tennis

facility.

1:00:53

Visit a golf course we did a charity event with Eric for St. Jude’s at the clubhouse and it
was catered by Cisco and he got everyone. We're all the sponsors did everything as part of

the contribution and it's a stunning facility. Really?

1:01:12
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

43:26

this, this is more rewarding than that. Yeah, in fact, all of the lenders you got for you
250,000. You got a bond. Right. Okay. Now, the bond was payable in 30 years, if you were
still a member of the club. If you stopped cease being member of the club, you couldn't

carry the bond.

43:50

So did he have the 250 initiation but they still had to pay month.

43:56

That's all recipes, a lot of pay the fees for the operating the club and the using the golf
course and all of that. That was separate. So this was a financing arrangement where you
we created a situation, which was non taxable. Now what happens at the end of 30 years,
if your bonds hanging around good, if the bonds hang around, they could own the club.
They do. Meanwhile, he’s got to use a $50 million for 30 years. Who cares who ends up
with the club?

44:29

survey? That was like 1995 96 that's getting close to being almost 30 years. | mean, a lot.

Yeah, so he didn't didn't care if he loses Mara Lago

44:41

what No, no, he’s not gonna lose it. The people hold the bonds at this point they'd ever
expected really to get paid. They never did and they certainly not going to run into a club
but you're going to your bondholders are going to run running a facility like Mara Lago
with all the help and the The tennis courts and everything else. No, they never expected to
get paid. So it was your illusion. | didn't care if in fact, the bondholders came back and
said, Hey, Trump pay off to the $50 million. But you can't do that 15 million because most
of them have already left or they've died. So you got to come up with suppose Yeah, it's
got to come up with 10 or 12 million? What 15? whatever the number is. Do you think that
they're going to enforce those bonds? Of course not. They don't want to run a club, they

wanted to have the availability the ability to be in a first class club.
jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

appreciate? It'd be a good way to proceed. It's a learning experience.

40:47

I'm sure it will be

40:50

good luck guide | what you're saying is just fine. Great idea. And | think there's a big

tremendous marketplace for senior citizen housing. not cheap either.

41:01

There is an in this area that the type of product we want to bring doesn't exist yet. That's

why that’s important.

41:08

That's even better. Great. Thank you, George. You're welcome.

41:14

Okay, let’s go next to Billy in Nashville. Wait, Billy.

41:23

All right here. | didn't George.

41:25

| don't see it. should be on there. Can you hear me you're over there. Okay. Yeah. My God.

You can scroll over.

41:34
| hide. Yeah, |
