JO

JO

JO

And do you see any issues with the lender with that structure?

52:39

No. No lender only concerned your lender is going to give you money once it's built that's
all and the GC can do the overseeing to make sure that he gets the affidavits and things
that certain work has been done. And the fact that the subs have been paid by the lender
good. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely works fine. But by suggestion get directly involved with
the contractors don't work who the GC. Also, there is also a boss testing possibility that
the GC may be getting some payback somewhere along the way for the contract is giving
you a job by contracting the subs directly you stamp that out? Yep. Because the GC gets
the role, right? maybe five or 6% of the total job. But the total job is whatever is whatever
you see your view, aggregate of your contract are much better to have control. That
makes a lot of sense. But then you just have to do it. You just have to do what to staff to
do what the GC is going to supervise to cut the subs. Oh, but you got to still negotiate all
the contracts with the subs. | mean, that's that's a ton of work. You got 1720 work, not a
ton of work. How am | gonna sleep so what only 10 contracts? What are we talking about?
Probably 20 so 20 at that point to do it, so you have a good lawyer let him do it. Okay,
you get out of standard, your standard AIA contract and saying is what is it you got? The
architect has come up with a pool with the plans and specifications and you've sent out a
request to request of it. Obviously you want that’s all that's coming back when you've got
no that's even to do it may be time consuming but you're talking about an awful lot of
dollars and aggravation you can say by getting involved and doing the subs doing the
contract yourself. Okay, okay, works. Okay, anything else? We

94:55

got our way through? Or we got one more question. This one’s comes from Eileen from
Alina And Alina is looking to raise capital. Now she's using a particular structure called a
506 b syndication, which requires a prior relationship with the investors. Now, in her case,
she doesn't necessarily have enough of the funding relationships. So she's looking to bring

in co sponsors who do have those

55:23

relationships, but Okay, so if you got Go ahead, you got the wrong guy. Okay, the wrong
guy, | just went, | have never done a syndication. Okay, never. In other words, all the
PowerPoint with all that was done at that point was the developers who develop

themselves and never subbed it never syndicated out. So that this is a technical area, and
JO

JO

JO

JO

All she needs is a good lawyer. There’s a good lawyers who do it on a constant basis, and
knows how to go around and how to comply with all the governmental regulations with
the Attorney General on everything is syndication, and effectively how to skirt the
question of due diligence and bringing in Soho associates. Yeah, because there's a
limitation as to how many investors you can bring in, and what their qualifications are,
how many dollars they have. It's a highly technical area, and by all means, go into it. I'm
not saying don't go into it. But get a very competent counsel that has done this done
syndications in the past, and knows how to draft the papers and go around all the legal
ramifications so that you don't get bogged down or by the attorney general or any other

governmental agency. The SEC, right? Yep. Yep. Okay.

56:40

| think | think that's a wrap them for this evening.

56:44

Good. Okay. Keep the questions coming. We'll look forward to the next one. Okay,

wonderful.

56:49

Thank you again, George. Have a great evening. And for the folks on the call. Have an
awesome evening as well. And we'll talk to you again next week. Welcome, Bye now.

Thank you. Can | Bye for now.

27:09

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

he gets a higher rent for covered space and a lower rent for just open air space. Oh, that's
a that's a market. Right? Right. What he would like to do is maximize the amount of
cupboard space because presumably he can get more rent for that. Yep. So, so the
question is, is he better to maximize? Is he better to maximize that and build it right right
out to the, to the, to the limit of what what's permitted, or is he better off to have multiple

different product offers at different price points, offer uncovered space partially covered.

40:23

So | like to | like to | like the flexibility of having more different products that you can sell
covered space or uncovered space at depends on what the demand is. In the event, the
demand is for storage of boats or trailers at this point, and | keep it uncovered. If it's a if
it's a if it's not, if it's a storage space for where they where they needed, fully enclosed.
And that's where the market is, or that's, that's where you get the wrench and close it,
whatever, you know, whatever, wherever the market is, and luckily, from what you're
saying, He’s got the flexibility is doing different types, some could be open, some could be
closed, and | got the product, you know, that it could fit almost anyone anyone's needs.

That's great. So depending on what the market is at the time, that's what he does.

41:09

Okay, so | do see | do see Hayden here on the line here. | find muted you, Hayden, I'm not
sure why you weren't able to unmute. Are you there? I'm not sure either. George. I'm here.

Hi. Did | capture the essence of the question correctly?

41:23

Yeah, | think you hit it on the head. But that George, really the essence of the question is, is
should | shoot to maximize my revenue? Or should I? You know, and | don't want to hear
what Trump did on this. No, no. | said, No, no, they did never shoot to maximize your
revenue. You have to shoot to whatever the market bears? Sure. Sure. So | would say at
that point, you have you have flexibility, which is unusual. In other words, you can you can
judge there's a need for open space and the need for enclosed space. So we have some of
each, when the mark is when when somebody comes in. So | need enclosed space, stick
close to them. As you have the flexibility. On the other hand, if it turns out that a lot of
people want to park boats, you got the area for the flexibility is great. | wouldn't change
that. Gotcha, gotcha. So how would you, in your experience go about determining what is
the right amount to build out in the beginning in terms of unit mix? there? Is that right

about depends on what the what the market, what the market is what you got? Can you
JO

JO

JO

| love it. So thank you. Good. You're welcome. What can we do for you? So | sent in a

question. | syndicate | buy buildings all over Texas.

18:55

developments now and it's a very, very hot market for apartments especially the

syndication business is kind of a buzzword nowadays. | think everyone wants to get into it.

19:07

The market is very frothy. What Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, | just can't beat a market in all
of Texas. You're talking about a specific area of Texas, I'm sure. All over Dallas Fort Well,
not all over some cities in Texas you're not doing as well as other cities. So as long as you
play, you're picking out the right. the right ones then you got some areas are hot and
some are not.

19:31

Yeah, | guess. | guess my main question is, you know, in your real estate investing, would
you advise because apartments is what | know and what we're gonna stick to that over
time. And you know, we may not do as many deals now as we were a couple years ago.
You're asking you're asking the the the quintessential real estate question mark is Mark is
go up, Mark. Scroll down. And over a period of time, there are going to be a lot of cycles in
real estate. Some of the best deals that I've seen made are ones where the price was very
high, but people went out and bought it anyway, and the price went even higher. Some of
the worst deals with a price was the price was, was high, and then it went down to the
price was low, and went even lower. But that's the gamble. You have to do your due
diligence and get your gut reaction. And say this is this is what | think is an intelligent
investment. And | will proceed with it as long as you're not betting the ranch. But you
can't. You can't basically say everyone would like to buy, when put when property is low
and see go up. But understand when somebody when you're if you own a piece of
property, and you sell it to somebody, the person who buys it doesn't figure it's going to
go down in value, they're going to go up in value, and you figure it's going to go down in
value, because that's why you're selling it. But this is the nature of a free market. And
certainly in real estate, you have to decide what you are doing and basically do it and put
in a timeframe to see whether or not you're on the right track. Over a period of time, if
you've done it right, it should be okay. If not you bail out. Sure. And in your time, you know,
did you ever notice you are more successful? Because he focused on one specific asset

class or, you know, doing all you know, offices versus apartments or condos for retail? May
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

wallet, people were saying don't do it, it can't be done. You create crazy, it's going to cost
you a lot of money. It's not going to work that well. Everybody said no. But somebody said,
Wait a minute, this point, | gotta be three years in the making. So maybe three years is
going to change me while three years. | got three years free rent from my, from the owner
of the property. So my expenses are practically nil except for the work I'm doing in a
renovation. But | don't have rent to pay. So it's you know, it's a it's, it's a lot of cards, a lot

of things to be done, but the difficulties are the ones that make the most money. Sure.

38:24

Okay, well, thank you for that. So let's go next to Hayden hidden. Are you on the line? He
was here. | was talking with him a short while ago. Well, it’s not here now. Well, let me let
me ask the question for him. So So Hayden has a new storage project. It's actually right in
the heart of Fort Myers, Florida. It's a project that's fully paved, and it’s got several open
walled structures. So this is specifically for boat and RV storage. Now, because the
buildings are not fully enclosed. It seems the city won't actually then consider those to be
two buildings. Now the highest rent that you can get is of course for fully enclosed space.
And then the next here is for covered space.

394

What was missing one point what's the city got to do with the rent you can charge?

ag925

So what it has to do with is your land coverage ratio, so if it's not considered a building,
then presumably you can cover more a higher percentage of the land then if it is
considered a building.

39:36

So but what's that got to do with rent? If the space | the one thing I'm not hearing at this
point, what does the city have to do with whether you're renting a fully enclosed building
or not opposed enclosed buildings? Do they use it rent controlled and something like that?

No, no? Okay, so

3975)
JO

JO

stagger it. If it's possible to stagger it, I'll put it off and say this, I'll do one two years of this,
I'll do it five years, then that that's that's the best way to try to catch the market. When is
there it's not as big bigger risk, but you also if you need it sooner, you haven't got it. So it's

but that, you know, that’s the nature of real estate. Is that Do you know that?

29:57

Yeah, absolutely. Well, | know some of the Members of the call are newer and may not
have necessarily heard the story of 40. Wall Street, why don’t you take a minute and just
talk about the strategy that you put together for that particular project? Because there's a

lot of lessons in it.

30:11

Okay, well, that's it 40 Wall Street is this morning 40 was the first of all had gone into a lot
of foreclosures, a lot of local foreclosures, this boy that owned by it could do, the main
problem that existed was, it was a long term ground lease, the property was owned by a
German by a German family with a lot a lot of money. And there’s no way you're going to
buy the land, none. And lease was terrible. And there was a representative in New York.
And if you wanted something from Germany, you had to go through this representative
who had very sticky fingers. And he basically would veto almost anything, you can't do it.
And it was like a roadblock that you couldn't go through. So somebody who had bought it
had bought the bill and bought the building the water lease, actually, for a million dollars,
and walked it out. And couldn't get anywhere with the owners of the property because
you couldn't get through to them without going through this that they're in front man in
New York, and was available for he agreed that he said that he would sell it for what he
paid or what he agreed to pay. And he never took never really took tylee only got agreed
to do it. So when the time came without diversity, he was only how to get a good lease
you could live with. So effectively, Donald flew to Germany spoke to the people in
Germany said look, you got to get a building here, which is in terrible repair, and needs a
lot of work. To bring it up, there was no market there. If you will trust it, trust me, I'll make it
a first class building. And you'll be proud of it. But | first thing | need, | need your help, |
need a lease that | can live with for a long period of time, and I'm not going to pay any
rent for two years. So you have to work with me. And he convinced them that that's was
appropriate, they did it. And as a result, he now had a good ground lease and could wait,
the return of the market. And now had something which was which was marketable, which
was saleable, which was mortgageable. But it took a personal touch in order to get it that
now the people before it couldn't, didn’t never did that. never went to the personal touch.

To convince the other side, that was the major problem. Donald did it. And it worked very
JO

JO

JO

JO

well. And it worked very well for them. So that you had a good working relationship and
you could make a go whenever when the market changed you were there. So but that's a
once in a lifetime.

32:40

Now, remember, you gave you actually hosted a tour of 40 Wall Street A number of years
ago, and he showed us everything from the vaults in the basement to some of the office

space on the upper floors. There's there's three different floor plates. That's it.

32:56

That was just that was everybody else that was the problem. Right? The problem was is
you don't have one Billy is this you have a 400,000 feet of space, which has 6000 feet on
the floor and you had another 300,000 feet of space with a big tenant 10 12,000 square
feet on the floor. And then you had a much larger area, which was totally unusable. So the
fact wasn't, did they say well, how do you rent it out? It's like It's like renting three buildings
out one. How do you handle it's different? But nevertheless, is you look at and say well,
you know what we finally get down with LSA it's a it's a million square foot property for a
million dollars where you're going to get something like that. And we went and part of it
went back to school convinced the city that the property was overtaxed and got a check
from the city for $4 million because the property is overtaxed. Wow. So and also dealt
with contractors. So this was they said they had kind of had mechanic's liens. And we said,
Look, you're not going to get paid your mechanic's liens, do what you want. But if you
want if we refurbish the building, we'll give you the first right to go bid on the jobs. And
they said yes. So a lot of things could be done because the building was in a bad shape.
But the the somebody wanted to make it work. But that's, that’s, you know, that's, I'll never
see. Well, | mean, it wasn't like that, you know, | took a tremendous amount of courage.

Everybody said, No, it won't work. It can't happen.

34:29

It is such an amazing story. And every time | hear you tell it, there's always another layer of

learning in there certainly for me, so thank you for for going through

34:39

it but everybody said in what we went to a top notch broker, top real estate broker, and
JO

JO

JO

JO

know how big that team is, but certainly doesn't have to be large, because that’s not a

major transaction.

09:10

Okay. And it’s he was to scale up from there to let's say, a 40 to 80 unit building Well, is it

09:16

it's quite heavy, you need competent people depending upon the complexity of the
project. And how complex the project is depends on what it is when it is in the timewise.
So you may need expert experts. We m&a made somebody to say you may need a
structural engineer that's involved. You may need an environmental study, but it varies on
the project and where it is and the complexity and you just get the the qualified people to
do what you have to do what has to be done when it has to be done in your head. There's
no rule that no firm rule it's like a you know it's a it's a it's how long is a piece of string it
depends on how long you want it to be. You gotta you gotta have, you gotta have a good
staff to do what's necessary to be done. And you have to figure out what is really
necessary and then have it done. And that is, as far as legal is concerned, engineering,
involved quality control, and architects, whatever it is, says the whole gamut depending

upon the project itself and the complexity involved in the project.

WWEZ}

| agree, it’s a general question. And one of the things that I've always contended is that
many investors try to do projects that are too small, and so they can't afford necessarily
the skills that they need to actually fill out the team with the skills that they need. What's
been your experience, as far as

10:45

That's true, that's true, but they get good at this me. Generally speaking, if you develop a
team, if you're dealing with multiple projects, let's say if you've ever built a track record,
you have somebody that you trust them to do it, and they will be there to give you the
information that you need, or the guys, regardless of the size of the project, it doesn't
make a difference at that point, whether it’s 10 million or 50 million at this, they really rely
to you. So it’s not, as | say, as a lawyer, it never mentioned, | was never concerned how

many zeros there were on a project. It was the nature of the project, which controlled what
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

you, I'll assume your negative. Once you put that on there, they'll leave the focus or they
will run. But in any event, you guys, you don't have the problem of not knowing or thinking
maybe they are you got to get their attention, which means it has to be something that
there would be really interested in. So you have to show them the numbers make sense

and why it's a good deal.

14:56

Got it.

14:58

You know | certainly don't want to erect an artificial barrier that just triggers a no,

artificially.

15:07

No, but didn't know. But your parents better have a no even artificially than an unknown,
which is not you don't have a deal, you don't have a question. But you got somebody who
says I've been interested, until the time comes to write out a check, the interest is of little
value. And | have found in my own in my past experience, that if you want to take away a
good transaction from somebody. So now as soon as you got this, we got this guy, you
said you offered him a particular deal, and it turned out to be great. The next thing is
turned out to say, Hey, Joe, you remember the deal, | offered it, I'm sorry, you didn't go
into it. Because it turned out to be fantastic. Somebody now ends up tripling their money
or around investment this way. So | really would like to do business with you in the future.
So let me know if you're still interested, once they know that they've lost something,

there’s much more of a desire for them to come back to the table.

16:03

Yeah, we've certainly talked about this before the idea that if you if you create a bit of

scarcity, it makes people want it more.

16:12

Absolutely. That's got to be real. Yeah. But let's with this type of developer, it seems to me

that you have to find out what he's really interested in. And he talks about major, major
JO

JO

JO

JO

06:19

No, | think it has to be an evaluation. But in this instance, when you have the Volkswagens
entirely different thing, it was more than a letter at that point, there was a lawsuit going
on, of course, we're just a potential lawsuit. But any, any big executive or any big company
can get hit with a whole bunch of potential lawsuits. With a you have summary claim
claiming anything that could be a potential liability. And the it's up to the people in
control as well as counsel to make a decision as to how likely This is to have an adverse
effect on the company. And when you're forming stages. If it’s after trial, that's fine, but
there may never be a trial. So it’s a it’s a, it’s a judgment call is when when to release it, or
if you should be releasing it. And nicad you can't write any hard and fast rule for that.
Yeah, indeed.

07:15

Okay, let's, let's move to some some other questions. This first question is from Robin.

Robin, are you on the line?

07:31

Okay, we don't have Robin on the line. So I'll ask the question for him. So, Robin, is fairly
new to syndication. And he's looking to put together a deal. And he’s in particular, one of
the things he’s struggling with, is how to go about building a team and the equity
ownership. So one of the things that he's trying to figure out is, could you explain how to
put together a core team? And what would be their roles and responsibilities, as distinct
from folks that you might hire as consultants? Like, again, he’s new to syndication, he's

new to putting together these types of development projects?

08:13

Well, yeah, but his question is much too broad. When you talk about a core team. How
big? How big is this project that requires a core team? How many team members are?
What are the bases? What are they to do? And what are the responsibilities depends on
the size of the project and the complexity of the project? Let's say that it’s a dozen unit
building. Solid small. Yes. So So what do you need a core team for you need somebody to
make an investigation as to do the dilla did due diligence in connection with the
construction of a building potential liabilities, liar and good lawyer to check that these are
the legal impediments? And Gutka an accounting firm or someone who's gone through

the numbers? They can say, yeah, these look like realistic numbers. And that's it. | don’t
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

51:07

And so from a financial, from a financial standpoint, you do the math and figure out what

your per diem holding cost is. At the end of the day, it's actually not costing you anything

91:17

that's not costing you anything is better, because it's just where you got the product
earlier. So say if | can, if I'm looking to read it how | had, if | can can accelerate the cost to
complete the data completion by 90 days, what's that worth? To me, it could be worth a
lot. Because you don't have the expenses for the 90 days. So it’s a word I've seen it used in
Ghana have used it and it turned out to be worked out very well. | mean, totally to this
point, you know, | mean, I've got the guys that were working at this point that when they
got near the end, they were going to lose their bonus step or day guys working overtime
and doing everything they didn't want to lose the bonus. So they knocked their brains out
at that point to get the advantage of the extra dollars. Now the worrying, instead of

worrying what what liabilities they're going to have because they wait.

92:07

Now the bonus is paid to the GC or to the subs or both.

o2Z.11

And it's up to the subs | think GC GC nothing easy. He's kind of the GC just oversees the
job. The subs are the ones that do it.

52:20

So the only way that works is if you're if you're writing the contracts with the subs directly
not through the GC

52:25

now you got it right to contract with the subs directly, don't do it through the GC.

52°35
JO

JO

JO

affected Volkswagen. And in their surprise indictment, the prosecutors argued that
executives withheld information about the scandal from shareholders in attempt to prop
up the share price. And it shines a spotlight on the fiduciary responsibility that any
sponsor has to investors to disclose even bad news. What's your perspective on this story?

And in general, how to handle bad news?

01:42

Well, that’s a that’s a very good question. First of all, you have to make a distinction
between a public company where there are independent shareholders in the stock is
readily marketed back and forth. That makes a big difference, because there's a greater
fiduciary responsibility for when the the CEOs or people know something, an obligation to
disclose it to the stockholders so that they can make a decision one way or the other as to
what they want to do with the stock. That doesn't necessarily follow the way you have no,
no public issue with no stockholders have consequences. There’s no generally open
market. But it is a good practice distill for any soonsor was on when there is bad news at
that point, come out with it. And television, bad news, whatever it is, to the to the
participants and to the investors. They liked that the fact that you told them, if they find
out that you held something back is much worse, you lose, you lose a lot of credibility. At
that point, if you knew something that was negative, and you held it back, that is much
worse at that point than telling it as you think it is or where you can flavor it to make it
not as bad as they might think it is. But bad news is good to disseminate. It’s a good

practice.

03:01

Now, in this particular case, you know, part of the thing that would have affected the
share price is the close to $30 billion in fines and penalties and so on that were paid to the
US government. And obviously that has an impact on earnings and the shareholder value.
But at that time, it wasn't known what those fines were going to be until they were

announced. So it really was only a risk at that point. It wasn't news, per se.

03:24

No, that's that’s that's a good point. Very good point. At what point are you obligated to
make a disclosure? Exactly the very slippery slope. Certainly make a negative disclosure,
when you have a suit did end up with a liability of many millions or billions of dollars, then
there's a little on the left side, the fact that the suit was commenced, and is in existence is

something that should have been brought out. And then you say, Fine, we have the
JO

JO

depending on that right, depending on where the market is at what's your what's your
what's needed. Okay, do you have what do you do have a labor forces coming in? Are you
have students from a university, whatever going on in the marketplace, then you can
decide? Yeah, well, if they're going to need more, more rooms are going to need more
apartments, they're going to need all kinds of public service. Whatever it is, it depends on
the on the market in the area. And that varies block by block or city by city. So essentially

just opportunistic based on where you're at. Absolutely. You're absolutely right.

22:12

So George, further to David's question. | mean, you've you've worked through many
market cycles. And you talk a little bit about surviving a down cycle, what how do you

position yourself to survive a down cycle or perhaps even flourish in a down cycle?

22:29

Well, that’s a very good question. First of all, if you know there's a day, you have to be a
little more pessimistic, over what you think is going to happen. So if you gave a timeframe
and say, Okay, I'm going to be out of this deal in five years, get enough money, so it’s
gonna be eight years, because it may not be five years. So you have to decide at this
point to give yourself enough leverage. But over a period of time, the market will change.
And you have to be able to rise with it. To go with it, because if it does go up now, | think
one of the best examples, they came, they came up with this point was basically when |
talk about 40, Wall Street. Now 40, Wall Street is a classic time that the problem was
available in Manhattan, 2 million square foot building, which was available, you could buy
it for a million dollars $1 a square foot for a major office building. The problem was it was
vacant, and there were no tenants. Are we okay? Hello. Yes, yes. Yeah. And there were no
tenants? None. So nobody wanted it. Nobody wanted the building is good was nothing
you could do with it. And everybody said, Well, the only thing is a commercial, it's an
office area, you got to turn the it doesn't work because an office turned it residential
because very much in demand. That was the general consensus of opinion. Now, on the
other hand, this we went over when it came up, and, and | was he suggested along the
way to Donald, | said, Wait a minute, it's going to take you three years to renovate this
building and bring it up to up to major standards. You need a new elevator, a new
elevators, you need a major overhaul in the lobby, you need electrical system, you need
everything, and there were no tenants there. But since most of the buildings, the office
buildings were now going residential, | think when the market changes, there's going to be
a need for office space, and you will be coming out at the right time. appropriate that was

my feeling on it. And it turned out to be exactly correct. The rents in midtown Manhattan
JO

JO

JO

_)O

JO

went up went high up. And a lot of companies said Where do we go now? And the
question was, Well, why don't we go down to 50 under Wall Street where There's a lot of

space, which is relatively cheap to be fantastic.

25:09

Well, in the case of 40, Wall Street, | mean at that particular point in time there was a lot

of vacancy in the marketplace. | mean that that was kind of a crapshoot.

25:21

Absolutely. It's a crapshoot. But you take a crapshoot. What do you buy a building for
$1,000,000.10 years later, it's worth 520 million. How do you do that? That's a crapshoot.

25:34

Yeah, you had me way more upside than downside?

eho 7

Well, no, Bob striding But first of all, you needed somebody who had the courage that
they got to put in all this money without having any tenants. figuring it in the future, when
i when i when it'll come, it'll pass and have courage that the in the cycles that will work.
Plus a cycle will change. That's the somebody do if you've if you have the time, and the

money to outright a cycle, you will do very well.

26:04

We | mean, we've certainly experienced that many times. You know, we had a project that
we completed in Philadelphia that was supposed to start in 2014. And at the time, we were
projecting our rents to be around 12 $100 a month. And anyway, to make a long story
short, we had an issue with eminent domain and several years of delay as associated with
that. By the time we got the project done this year, 2019, we were getting rents of 16 $150
a month. And we would have never foreseen that back in 2014. No, no, it's just with the

passage of time.
Ollee

PC+-+September+2019+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

qe Thu, 9/92:37PM @ 57:22

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

building, point, gc, question, project, market, rent, deal, problem, space, syndication, investors,

depends, bid, contract, people, george, tenants, real estate, subs

JO

JO

Die)

JO

00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:07

We've got a bunch of people still joining the call. Great. So welcome, everyone. Welcome

to our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross. Georgia, of course was Mr. Trump's

right hand man for most of 37 years. And we're gonna have a great call tonight. definitely
take your pen and pencil out. Take lots of notes. We've got some great, great questions.

Let's dive right in George.

00:31

Yeah, But sir, well, | was with Trump for 47 years, you

00:36

must have maybe you're 10 years younger. Wish wishful thinking. So George, one of the
one of the things that's in the news today, prosecutors in Germany brought charges
against three senior executives from Volkswagen, the CEO, the former chairman, and the
former CEO. In fact, the current CEO only joined the company in 2015. And he only took
over SEO in 2018. And this all has to do with the diesel emissions cheating scandal that
JO

JO

he said yeah, he'll take the building on the safe but Apogee gives you you got you
guarantee and a commission, a commission of $800,000 which which you get paid off
when he makes new leases. If it doesn’t make the leases you blew the 800 you blew da
100 grand. So he wasn't he said you can't read it. There was no there's no market for
offices. And that was a top notch broker. So if you believe that, of course you're going to
go nowhere, of course. So but game | said the the the average rent at that point was for
office space downtown was $4.50 a square foot. Oh my goodness. So is it but that’s how
bad it was. So now it just went away when | convinced the Donald Trump that if we if we
refurbish the building, and he got put a noose all new to all new stuff at that point and got
rented like half the building for $13 a square foot, he could make money. And he rented it
for more than $25 a square foot. So needless to say, it turned out to be a homerun. And
since there was such a shortage of space when the tenant came in, and a couple tenants
one tenant says | need 200,000 square feet of soace. Where do you get 200,000 square
feet of office soace in downtown Manhattan didn't exist in one building. Right? Now it did.
So now all of a sudden, you had a triple A one tenant yet American Express that took for
200,000 square feet of space. 200,000 square feet of space on a million square foot
building as a triple a tenant. Right away two mortgages, the mortgage, the mortgagee
looked at it No, he loved that idea. And then you had an insurance call me took another
200,000 square feet, but he’s now at 400,000 square feet of space in triple A one tenants.
We couldn't have attended before budget, but they gave money, let them build a building
space in the way they want. And that was fine. But it's a you got to have a lot of foresight

and a lot of courage to do something like that.

36:43

So who funded the tenant improvements in that particular instance? The more we had a
mortgage? When a mortgage to borrow it, convince them to convince them? So it was a

more Tyson the rent over the term?

36:56

Correct? Yeah, yeah. And of course, you had that you get the lot of deductions for
amortization and a lot of deductions along the way, though. Tremendous tax benefits and
depreciation and what have you. Yeah, a lot of things. Good work, but the you know, just
you have to have the courage that the end result is gonna make it worthwhile. And yes, it
worked. It worked out fantastically. Yeah, it sure did. But, you know, that's, that's, that's
you don't see very, you see it very infrequently. It's the best one I've ever seen. And nothing
like it took a tremendous amount of courage at that point to operate, build office space,

when there was no market for it, and nobody else wanted office space. And will every
JO

JO

| would do. And basically the client felt the same way. So but you have to get with the
people you need in the in the jobs if you need depending upon what's required at that
particular point in time. You can't draw a hard and fast rule say, Well, | only need one here
and one there. It depends on the complexity of the project, get as many people as you
need, as long as as long as you need them get qualified help. And in the long run, that's
going to save you a lot of time, effort and aggravation. That makes sense. Oh, yeah, we

should hope so.

12:00

Okay. Next, we have a situation in our particular business, we've got a strategic investor
who's quite large. And he's looking for over time, progressively and substantially different
structure as the discussion has progressed. Now he's a large builder, he doesn't want to
operate the project. And he’s overtime been wanting a substantially larger percentage of
ownership based purely on the basis of straight equity contribution. Now, he's been very
busy on multiple other projects. Again, he's a very established builder, he’s built a couple
of NFL stadiums, he bought the Miami Dolphins stadium. He's built a couple of NBA
stadiums, numerous hotels, and he's got a strong track record and reputation. And in fact,
right now, he's actually building a large facility in Phoenix, for the Ford Motor Company.
And he says that his interest in the project remains very strong, but we get a distinct
feeling that he’s actually too busy to pay proper attention to this particular project. are

we wasting our time with him? What are your thoughts?

13:14

Well, you the answer is you may be wasting your time with him. The problem is that you
have to get with a potential client like this, you have to get him to focus. To get him to
focus at that point, you have to put a timeframe. And you say, Good, here's a project
we've got this is available, we think you would be interested in here's, here's what's
available, here’s what's going to cost. And we have we needed a decision by two weeks,
three weeks, or whatever is by a given a specific date. If we don't hear from you by that
date, we will assume you're no longer interested. If you build in the timeframe, and say it's
the by then or else then there Listen, if they don't build it a time frame, it'll go on forever. |
see. And you have to also, at that point in not only building in the timeframe, you have to
go back and build and cover the timeframe, the timeframe changes, not to make it
longer. But if it makes it shorter, you go back to him and say, you know, | told you you had
until December to make up your mind on this. But it turns out, | got somebody else that’s
interested in coming in, in the middle of October, or the middle of November. So | really

need you to make a decision by then tell me what you want to do. And if | don't hear from
JO

JO

JO

26:44

raises a very cogent real estate point is that you have to have faith and over a period of
time, real estate will increase in value, because it will keep up with inflation. If the if the
inflation is there type of people making more money, they're going to expect, they're
going to spend more money for rent, and they're going to have more money for this. So
and that shows up in the route and the real estate that they have the money they have to
pay it because that’s the market and the markets will generally go up. That's the real
estate has a tendency to appreciate in value over a period of time not to depreciate over
a period time. In a short period of time. Yes. Can go down a long period of time, the
answer is no. That's what they can do attractive.

27:34

It kind of segues a little bit into the question that Brad asked Brad, are you on the line? |
don't see him here in the in the list of attendees. So maybe I'll ask the question on his
behalf. He's he’s got a project he's looking at where he's looking to very much like 40 Wall
Street, go into a market where it's not really necessarily proven. And, you know, how's he
going to get the tenants working? Where can he find the evidence that there is demand
for that product in that particular location? How did you go about that in 40? Wall Street?
How did you go?

28:16

That was a pure, it was a gamble. Pure gamble at that point. But the concept is the reason
we went we said, well look what's happening, that there is a tremendous amount of
commercial real estate office space, which is now going out off the market and become
residential, because it was very good residential, the city gave you all kinds of benefits,
and say, Well, yeah, but once isn’t that gonna leave a shortage at a point in time if there
was a need for market space for office space? And he said, Yes, that would happen. And
he said, Well, okay, can we ride out until we get to that point? And if you get the answer is
yes, you're right. Because sooner or later, that’s got to equate out if you're, if the city is
booming, they're going to be tenants that need offices, they need offices, where do they
go, they're going to go where they're where it's the most advantageous for them, certainly
from a price standpoint, and that's exactly what happened. You got to figure out how long
it's going to take. But if it's possible, in a particular transaction, such as that to don't go
whole hog, you know, say, well, I'll take take part, big renovations and also do half of the
building right away, or I'll do three quarters. So that and then see until the market catches

up. Now instead of doing it all at one time on an all or nothing basis, and say, well, I'll
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

transactions that are involved involving a lot of money. But what about maybe he wants
to move to the other family, they have children to one type of investment, what they do
something stability, you have to find out what his appetite is, for various big transactions
from what you're telling me his appetite is very large on major transactions. But would
you be interested in a minor transaction, assuming that the numbers worked cncf to find
that out and see whether what what what it is, does it he would might be interested in,
albeit it’s not a large number, not a large number and moving like liability, but you have

to get his attention, which is difficult.

17:10

When you're dealing with folks like this, what what's been your experience? have you
encountered situations like this where you can't get necessarily someone's attention?

Absolutely. Absolutely. Constantly, apart from just setting a deadline, what else?

17:27

Setting a deadline is this is that if you, you come back now and you show them where
they made a mistake. You said, Hey, | get told you this. | told you, this is what it was going
to be. And | said if you put in them when you put in the quarter of a million dollars in three
years, you're going to be worth worth a million. And now here on that project, now that
project now is not worth a million because it’s not three years, but it’s worth over five, it's
worth double what you're paid for. | really wish you were involved. And | have other deals
like this if you're interested. So if you can show them why they made a mistake in not
dealing with you. You got an opportunity to get them to deal with you in the future. In

education.

18:15

Okay, very good. Okay. Next, we've got David toobin. David, you're on the line.

18:25

Yes, sir. Hi, David. How are you? I'm doing great. Thanks for that. Thanks, George. I've read

your book. Trump's route | could use your mind.

18:41
JO

JO

JO

following lawsuit. This is what they're seeking, and how much damages or whatever it is,
and let's stockholders can know that this is oncoming and they can act accordingly. So it's
a question of when to disclose it. And how serious it is that you there's no finite decision to
be made or time is just when it when it gets to the point that you think there's there’s a
likelihood or a good possibility you could have a severe adverse effect on your company.

And that's that's a call that’s a judgment call.

04:26

So for us as investors as deal sponsors, where we're maybe bringing in investor capital,

what's your guidance what's been your experience?

04:35

Well, the guidance is that this boy depends on when you know something you know
severe you get hit, if you respond to you get hit with a major lawsuit. Then you come out
you tell your stockholders or your investors This is air we don't think there’s substance to it
or we think there is some what what you can evaluate what you think it is but to come out
and disclose it, | think is important and certainly good business practice. Because if you
And then later | say comes up and somebody said, Well, why didn't you let me know? And
what's your answer? | didn’t think it was that important. Well, you should have if you're
making a decision, it's a it's a it's a tough call. But | think | would certainly go along with
the with the idea of more or fuller disclosure than withholding information on the
possibility that might be negative. That makes sense. It makes a lot of sense. Yeah. But it’s,
it's makes sense. Because it’s easy in the year when you were talking in the abstract.
When you're, when you're talking with, yeah, when you're involved, and you got stock, you
got the investors and they're scary, or the property, the property, there are other problems
that are involved in connection with a particular investment, and just throw another bed
and element on it at that point, you know, is, is not a great idea of putting putting oil ona

fire. So it's a it's a judgment call.

05:59

| mean, I'm sure they've been you've encountered numerous situations where you, you or
your clients might have received a threatening letter or who knows what, in the end,
nothing came of it. With something like that merit warning investors about or not, in your

opinion, not like that was a letter at letter? No.
JO

JO

JO

45:32

Well, yes, it's good question. First of all, disappoint us, you're certainly helped the GC. But |
think the problem that has come up with what you're what you're doing is you should be
whoever it is, should be dealing directly with the subs. And you should be sending out
proposals, or read requests to bid for the, for the particular work to be done. And then you
get maybe, you know, contract and say, here it is. But here’s the plan, here's the
specifications. Now, give me a bid for that work. And then they come back and they go,
there's need to decide that which contract Do you like, and you probably have many of
them. That will be there, you don't need to tie it down for a point in time. The problem |
think that arose is when you try to tie it down for a point in time, the contractor depends
on whether he’s going to be the sub, whether he's going to be busy at that point in time
where he figures now he's got you over a barrel, that you need him more than he needs
you. And that’s a problem. So | think that in dealing with the, the lender, and you say to
the lender, look, | don't have firm contracts this but we'll agree, we'll agree that the job is
going to come in at X number of dollars. And you can live with it, you know, we don't have
contracts for the extra windows. But if we're wrong, and it comes in more, we're going to
be responsible for it one way or another. So that you know now that you can get the loan
is there when you're ready to build a job. When you ready, build the job. Now you go to
the GC, you have the architects, they put together all the plans, all the specifications, and
they bid out the various jobs, they bid out the steel, they bid out the concrete, they bid out
everything. And they may have more contractors, because now they need the job. And if
you go to a contractor advance and say, here's the job, here’s the timeframe, the day that
we want you to build it on at that point, and now go bed. And if you get three or four
contractors, you're using one against the other, which is perfect, or you'd only take a little
bit or you take the one you like best. But they always want to have future jobs. So they will
tie up your jobs if they if it seems to work for them. So you use that to your advantage. and
say, Okay, you got it. The problem is when you try to tie it down for 30 days, and you

haven't built anything, you're going to get it the wrong way.

47:57

And so you're saying that from a from a funding perspective, once you've got the
commitment from the lender, if there’s an overage, we got to handle that on the equity

side.

48:05

Correct? Correct. But generally speaking, you come in with it with a display that you can
JO

JO

get, the GC certainly can give, they can give you the to the lender at that point,
everything if the lender might reasonably need to show that the price is falling, the price
works, that the construction is going to come in and X dollars. And this is why it isn't the
gewgaws as a list of all the trades that are there and comes up with an aggregate to how
we arrived at the total price. And that is really enough for the for the for the lender, say
we're going to build it at that particular price. And if it turns out to be more, that's our
problem. And then you go through, then you tie up your construction loan, and you will
then you go out and physically tie up all the bids. | think is the problem that | got here is
you got to did it backwards. You try to tie up the bids and then get a construction loan,

you get a construction loan and then tie up the bids. And pick a new contract if you like.

49:09

Yeah, because you end up you end up in a circular loop that you can go around that one

many, many times.

49:15

That's correct. And not only that, it depends. If you if you are doing it on a finite time. It
was you say to the contractor here, | need this by that date. Are you ready to deliver it if
you deliver it, this is the price. And you get the contractors who figure out Yeah, they got
that they'd like to know that they got the job at that point in time and didn't know they
could make a bit. But it's it You're the one that's controlling the timeframe, not them. So
they have to tell you whether or not they can work and then you say you basically have a
Chinese auction you bid one against the other. And you say why don't you try it you're you
you? same same plan, same spec and you came in at 250,000 and | got somebody else
that does a job who will do it for 150,000 What's the 100 1000 discrepancy, how much
back can you do better and you bargain one against the other and then take the one you
like not necessarily the lowest bid, but the one you like. Now there's another twist, which,
which | think is good, which I've seen used very well. And a lot of people never even think
of it. And that is that in the event that | say | give you a contract for 200,000. And you got
to pay, you say, I'm going to build it out in 90 days. If you build it less than 90 days, I'll give
you a bonus. I'll give you a premium for coming in ahead of time. Now, very often, when
you do that, you will find a contractor, whoever it is, is going to work as asof to get that
premium. So instead of your finger say he's figuring out what liability does he have,
because he came in late, he has wants to figure out how he's going to get this coming
early and you get you can really move move the job up, but earlier than you would think,
because there's an incentive for the contractors to do that. Great work worthwhile, not a

good way to consider.
_)O

get people signed up? To the can you get people to sign in events in advance? Can you
have a broker at that point? Did those would do well to say we have this and you get the
preliminary proposals as to Yeah, if you build it, we'll take it. Sure | know where you're part
of it, we worked fine. As displayed because if you're storing both, hey, that’s that's done at
a particular time of year. know somebody who has a booth is going to bring a boat down,
they got to know that that space is going to be there. So they'll sign up for it in advance.
They don't pay for it in advance. And they're going to have it and they have to know they
have the space. And it’s large enough to accommodate for the the botto the whatever
they have there or the RV. And you'd have no reason that you can't get get it signed up on
a preliminary basis. Where Yes, they had that you they're bound You're bound, but they
don't pay for it until they use it at a certain point in time. But that's a great way to be.
Sure, sure. So if you were to find that you built out, say phase one. And by the end of
construction phase one least up within a month, would you go ahead and start playing on
out phase two to maximize the mark? Yeah, okay. That makes sense. Absolutely. The
market was there. Absolutely. So you would only shoot to maximize revenue, if you knew
demand, was there otherwise, you'd offer a product suite? Well, I'm not No, no. It's not that
easy to do. Now, | wouldn't say maximize. As long as you feel that there was going to be
the demand. And you build for the for the demand, don't over build and say, well, demand
is always going to be there. So | can oversee the demand. But if you keep up with demand,
or you're slightly ahead of it, that’s fine, but don't get get too far out of it. And then all of a
sudden the market changes and the kind of problems. Gotcha. Makes sense. Thank you.

You're welcome.

44:19

Okay. Next, George, this is a situation that we have in our business. We've got a general
contractor that we have pretty high confidence in, and they've submitted a bid to US
based on the quotes that they received from their subs. And of course, those bids are only
valid usually for 30 days. And then we went to finalize the bids. And we you know, based
on those bids, we took it to our lender. The lender approved the construction loan based
on those initial bids. And when we went to finally confirm the bids several months later
The actual construction costs had gone up by close to 400,000. And, you know, some of
the subcontractors had taken other work. And so we had to find other subs and so on.
Now, the GC is clearly trying to get the number back into the original envelope. The
question is, How much? Should we be hands off with a GC and let them do their work? Or
should we get hands on involved in utilizing some of our own relationships to help the GC

find better pricing?
