JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

you're going to take a loss why not take a loss with me do it now instead of later,

46:45

but they're gonna come after me personally. Forget this

46:49

come after you personally at this point, but what | find is that when you get into this
situation, most people are going to lawyers or people who are not knowledgeable they
they basically get terrified look at how banks are in default on their mortgage | owe X
number of dollars the interest rate went from 7% to 12%. | haven't paid they're gonna
show up it’s going to show up on my credit report. And ultimately I'm going to have a
legal fees | have to pay or I'm going to have other expenses it's this fine that's the wrong
attitude. You want to rock your site your site what Brianna Bankside Michael what would
you do

47:34

that he has my money | want to know

47:37

this right now so you can't get it what do you want to do now? On the campaign? How
about | give me less initially well how much you got mind? | don't know what would it take
to solve it | want to give you 10% 10% 10% is outrageous. | want 80% Okay, give it to you.
Do you see where we're at?

47:55

So So what am | afraid of? I'm afraid of the legal fees I'm afraid of the credit score that's

what I'm afraid of right that's what they're or

48:02

so oh you only live on a credit card you can the credit score you can explain it have to

come up with a with some type of a defense whether it's merited or not as to why you're
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

not paying the mortgage All right, what's the defense | don’t know what's the what's the

call we'll come up with something

48:19

cold we got rid of my tenants the commercial markets bad

48:21

gotcha whatever it is that the areas change at this | was | was the your your requirements
under the terms your morbi are too stringent. You want me to do a and | can do it | want
to be here you can find easily a number of items that you can throw on the table. forget
how valid they are or whether you really mean it. If you throw them on the table,
somebody at the bank has to evaluate them but they are motivated by working out a
deal.

48:56

So okay, so | got | got the condo | got the first | got the second this small discharge, | can
give her them okay, and it builds my credibility in the in the real estate community in

Ottawa. Right It was a private second is

49:11

building your real your company building your reputation in the real estate court. | can't
believe somehow you think you can figure out there's some defects somewhere in what

the bank has done or hasn't done.

49:25

So why don't | go up to the bank and do a proposal | owe you 350

49:29

What do you give a proposal? What do they want?
JO

JO

JO

JO

we'll build a units. But I've got my CLS, the units are complete, | shouldn't have to wait on
the unit for the VCO for building one, because building two and three have not been

finished yet. Why are they tied together?

36:27

Because | think there is some environmental work and everything that needs to tie in

when the whole four complexes are built. And | can

36:34

understand. So now you're saying that that's another condition. Good. And when you
open all of these units, everyone will comply with the overall plan. So I'm ready to comply
with the overall plan for all the units. But why should | be restricted? adopt touching part
of it? Because | didn't finish all of it. Okay. No, no, not that I'll give you some kind of
protection that | will I'll do it, I'll give you a bond or something that they're entitled to
know that you will finish. But you shouldn't hold up the CEO of an existing building based
on something you're doing in the future on another building. Okay, it can be tied to
something else, a lot. environmental protections, you have to get certain things cleared,
that's fine, but not tied the for the other building. That's where the problem comes up.
That's that's wrong, shouldn't be there. Now, if say, well, you say, Well, this is what the
jurisdiction the municipality wants. Fine. What's about going to a building department
saying how did this come about? Why? What are you looking for? Why don't you join time
together? | want to hear the answer. So if you hear the answer, maybe this there's some
way that you could accomplish the same result and still have the flexibility of selling the
units when they're complete. And what's this? What's what has to do with this? You're
talking about leasing? What What's that got to do with it? Well, we

38:08

are we are buying this. So somebody built it. And they leased 25% of the units. So we were

going to buy the complex the whole 112 and then operate them as like lease up units.

38:19

Why? Why? Why is the government involved with that?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

55:00

Well, if you don't do it, I'm gonna put it I'm gonna put the property on the market. Fine.
What do you think you're going to do in the market? How many? How long? Is it going to
take you to sell it? What what's the defect is see how much of a reduction you're going to
take? Because you're you're set you're selling properties in default, | want to hit against.
And they haven't got the answer because they haven't done it. At some point, when you
take understand they'll go into this. Alright, so

55:29

you see, the hammer exists, they do hold the hammer, but it’s delayed, they can't use it

immediately. In a lot, too.

55:42

They can't, they can't, because it takes a long time to foreclose. And if you if they know
that you're going to fight a foreclosure, on grounds, whether or not the grounds are valid,
and not important, the fact that you're going to raise those questions is important. You're
now going to go back and say, Look, how would you like in the newspaper that you did
here? |am a poor homeowner, and you're trying to enforce a transaction, which should
never have been made? How is that going to look in the press? You're not going to do it.
But doesn't somebody in a bank have to go back and analyze whether that is what what's
what effect it would have to the bank, taking advantage of a poor homeowner. There's a
lot of psychology that's involved in this type of negotiation. Like it works. You got to have

cards, but it works. Anybody can play retail?

56:55

How many people do buy a woman ring at Saks? Right?

56:58

That's right. So we know that answer his question. Yes. Okay. Are we true?

57:08

Yes, we have a couple more questions that we didn't get to. But we'll get to the next time.
JO

JO

JO

appreciate you guys taking the question. And thank you both for France and the
questions over the weekend, the syndication seminar, just great, great advice, as usual. So
my question is a live issue. We have a we're dealing with a an issue with a roofing
company in Richmond, Virginia. And they're basically refusing to honor their five year
roofing warranty four years into the contract. So they, they put the roof on a rental house,
and a portion of the roof is starting to collapse on the ceiling. And we have a new roofer
separate company that's going to go in next week to replace it. | was referred to this
company by my property manager, and property manager had sent six other clients to
this roofing company, and they've all had bad issues as well. The market is in short supply
for a good roofing companies. And this bad roofing company is still they're still doing
business and poor workmanship. The dilemma is that it’s not a big loss. Thankfully, we
caught it early before for the tenant got injured, but I'm out $7,000 in the first roof and
having to pay more than that to get it repaired. And I'm debating whether or not to, to,
you know, take this further. The main reason | bring this up is because when | found that
the this roofing company is affected six other investors, and potentially more than that, |
feel like someone's got to do something about it. So if you were in my shoes, would you
would you move on? Or would you throw another class action lawsuit. And the second
part just to add onto one of those six other investors does own a large 50,000 square foot
commercial property, and that that roof is toast as well. So just wonder if that would add

any weight to the argument?

19:04

Why does he make the argument?

19:09

That's a good question. | have to ask my property manager.

19:12

You seem to be somebody they live with a city with a roof problem on 50,000 square feet
is a lot different than roof problem over with over your small unit. You this decision that
you have to make is happens very often. And when | say that happens very often it's a
question of what I'm not going to be happy with the result. What do | do? Let me tell you
things. litigation is good for one reason. Lawyers make a lot of money and I'm a lawyer.
Other than that, as far as the client is concerned, litigation is not going to be the answer.
You spent First of all, you spent a lot of time and effort. You live this thing over and over

again and you think you're being had which Are but the end result is so what? At this point
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

35:05

We do. But, but like, | mean, | mean, we have operated remotely. So most of our other
assets are in North Carolina and Florida is fine.

35:14

But how did you get? How did the cuckoo put these restrictions on the seal?

39:22

The township or the jurisdiction? Who, so they are telling them, or they are telling us, we
haven't deep dived into it? Before we spend more time and we had this call, we thought of
asking this?

35:32

Who is who is who's putting the restrictions up? Are these restrictions coming from?

35:38

Ask what the seller from the jurisdiction

35:42

is from the municipality? Yes. So the municipality says, Okay, before we're going to give
you a seal, | know you're on the air and the rest of the buildings, you have to complete the
others. Yes, right now. Okay. Who bought that concept? Have you had anybody ever go
back to this? | say why?

36:04

Not yet. Okay. When

36:07

| say good, | can understand that. Because you want to have, I'll give you a guarantee,
JO

JO

JO

JO

28:03

Yes. And we said at this point when he went he said if possible trade? Yeah. What do you
have in mind? Did you find out? No, not yet? | will. Yeah, | know. But now you say what do
you have him on? Yeah, that's a little that’s a possible. That's, | would say to her with this.
That's a very interesting possibility. What do you have in mind? To what you've done? Is
you enhance that position, your position, you accepted the concept that she put up, which
is good. So he actually did something very key Kaiser concept. Now I'll have to do is fill in
the blanks. Say, of course, that concept, which is like the opposite, not the gap or the
ancillary decision, when | said, Would you be interested in selling her house in exchange
for a unit, which is twice the value? That's what | said earlier, this is this is very similar to
where you're coming from, albeit from a different point, she or she came up with the idea.
That's fantastic. That's great. Now all you have to do is figure out good where where do
we put it? What do you have in mind? When do you plan on moving? If | move the house
tonight, if | replicated your house just moved it, would you be interested. But once she said
she'd be willing to think about a new condo unit, you've already passed that. She's not
interested. She says, under if | got a brand new unit, | might give up the house. Wow.
That's tremendous. As far as the negotiating point, because now you don't have to move
the house. You don't have to put it on a new life. You don't have any of the problems
connected with that or the dollars and you turn a simple or difficult transaction into a
simple transaction exchange can be your house and I'll give you a condo works very nice. |
mean, that's that's fine.

30:08

| just got to fill in the blanks. What does she?

30:10

Yeah, absolutely. So the key the key in this situation, as in all negotiations is don't go in
with what you want. You go in with what do you want? What can | do to make this
happen? And | want to hear them give the answer that I'm going to pro poker the answer?
Never until the last minute, | wouldn't say never, never until the last minute, do | talk? Do |
get in a lot of data, tell him what | would like to do? Or how it fits in unless it was basically
their idea. So who's doing a negotiation? You are them? They don't know what is helpful.

Very.

30:57
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

49:31

All 350 back again?

49:34

Oh, good. I'm like what do you guys think? Boy, is this at some point? At some point, you
don't pay him anything. And you say if you come back and do something reasonable | will
consider it who is doing the negotiation them are you then the alright. Loved One thing
for sure. The person who makes the first offer is the one that’s got a problem. | understand

what you're saying. Yeah, but you're not you don't have the courage to do it.

50:06

| got a counsel but I'm listening to

50:09

| understand he doesn’t have the courage either. What you need is a street fighter.

50:14

Victor, you want to back me up here?

50:21

| understand what you're saying. And | understand the fear. And | understand what
lawyers are going to the average lawyer because they Oh, yeah, hey, you signed a legal
you signed a document, you're on the hook for that money. Not only that, they can

change the interest rate from 10% to 20%. To get more than have legal fees, you gotta be
you gotta have to pay. Yeah, that’s all the downside? What's the upside, I'm not paying
anything for until | tell it's resolved. Until you force them to come to you, and say, we have
to solve this problem somehow. Or you could go at a later point in time, and you say,
Look, I'm not happy with where we are, and you're not happy? Let's see if we can resolve
it. What's the minimum amount? What's the minimum amount this takes to get you off my
back? And they come up with a number. They say, Well, how did you grow your turnover?
too high? Right? Yes. You understand the changing in negotiations? 100% of the standard?
Do you have the courage to do it.
JO

JO

_)O

JO

JO

Mary, | should have asked this question a few months ago.

31:01

That's good. But you know, but yeah, the answer is yes. But you can learn it now use it in

the future.

31:08

Well, the lines still open, the discussion is still open. So there's still the

31:12

discussion is always open. always open. It's just filling, filling in the blanks. Where is the
area of dispute? She wants to the new house a new problem, right? But does it make a
difference to her realistically, if you gave her a new new new apartment, and without
saying without agreeing on the value. So if you said I'm going to give you a new
apartment, it's worth twice what your house is worth. With, in order to do that, we have to
figure out what your house is worth. And whether and | tell them, this is a unit. Now | give
her a smaller unit, but say this is your house is worth 750, this unit is worth a billion, I'm
going to this unit, I'm marketing at a million and a half. Yeah, you may not get the unit

here, put your marketing

32:08

to right away spends a parking spot.

32:11

Yeah, and a parking space. And not only that, and not only off throw in the parking space,
which is a lot of dollars. You don't have all of which makes attractive. What you will have
done is she can now visualize being in a brand new apartment, which meets all her
specification having parking and not having the aggravation or the continuation of an
old house, even though it has emotional ties. Part of it is have you asked her what it costs
to rent a house. Why not? Okay. I'm gonna be honest, if I'm not being critical. I'm just
saying it just that’s part of it. You can throw that back and say, Wait, it's costing you
$8,000 in taxes to run this house. And it cost you how much for electricity and others that

you have to if you moved into my new unit, is what you'd say. You'd have to worry about
jo

JO

years?

08:11

Well, let's get back to the the basic premise as man proposes, but God disposes. Okay, so
you can plan all you want. But when the time is there, your time is up, it's up. You don't
know what it is, boom, that's the end of the end of it. Right. But the question is a good
question. And that’s a when you reach a certain age, what do you intend to do with
whatever is left over your life? You don't know how long it is. But what do you intend to
do? The if you said, Well, I'm going to retire, what does that mean? I'm going to stop
working. What am | going to do? | got to sit around and drink pina coladas, or am | going
to do something else? Am | going to relax? Am | going to what are you going to do? Your F
and my personal feeling is always very simple. As far as | was concerned. | wanted to
contribute my knowledge and expertise, that I've come cumulated over all these years,
and say, maybe | can make that expertise and knowledge available to some people who
have who will listen to me whether they decide to use it or not about changes in yout life.
That's up to them. But nevertheless, they have the benefit. This is what | did. It made it
made me happy. I'm very content. doing what I'm doing. Did | plan it? No. Not really. |
mean, there are plenty | plan to retire as soon as Trump has said he's going to be
president or at the desk in 2015. Did | plan on retire sometime before then? Yes, but not.
There wasn't a firm date certainly was not what | was 65. All right. So | said as long as my
mind is functioning, and | find life interesting, and the people I'm dealing with interesting. |
will think contribute, whatever | have to give. And very simple. | said, if | have any money
left over then for my lifestyle, | want to give it to charity, make it worthwhile makes me
feel better. And | believe something was worthwhile when it comes to the knowledge or
experience the same thing. That's why we were on the board, we're talking now, you got
the benefit of 67, more than 60 years of doing a lot of things in real estate and
representing Trump to what | thought to the extent that | can say something, and they can
understand it or accept it or not accepted, at least | think it's worthwhile. And I'll continue
to do it as long as the brain functions. And be honest with you, | am a firm believer that if

you keep your brain occupied, the body will follow.

10:47

| believe that as well. The Webster's Dictionary defines retirement. And one of the
definitions is to remove from useful service. Yeah, it’s that definition. | don't ever want to
retire. No,
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

51:26

So don't worry about the credit rating, right? Don't know the legal credit rating

51:30

when it comes on at this point, you give a good explanation to Experian or wherever else
it is, did you have a meritorious dispute as to why you're not paying? It’s not that | don't

want to pay, it’s just | shouldn't have to pay because they did something wrong.

51:46

unethical. They gave me money that | didn’t want, | don't

Sie)

care. Whatever it is, at this point is you got a you got a legitimate excuse. That's all the
credit company wants. Now, this is not that I'm not paying because | don't have the

money to pay. It's they're not paying because I'm not obligated to pay they did something
wrong. And all | want to do is get it straightened up. The same way at this point, that's the
thing with this. Assume now that you got an obligation. | got to build take the question the
one we had with the roofer. You didn't want to pay the roofer that I'm talking about, we
talk universally what they say okay, well, you know, why not? Well, it's a defective roof. I'm
not paying. That's all you need to credit in the in the file for the credit card. COVID. Why
didn't you pay it? Because | wasn't obligated to pay it, there was a defect. Why is it any
different when you're dealing with a mortgage? It's not. The numbers may be different. All
right, maybe more difficult for somebody who's not a street fighter. It's tough to
understand for somebody that is a street fighter, it's easy to understand. Because | know
how the banks think. Put yourself in the bank shoes, what do they want, they want to get
their money back? With the minimum amount of aggravation, and the extract to say,
Well, look, you're obligated to do this under this contract. You're only needed to do this
under the mortgage, you're obligated to bullshit I'm not obligated to do anything I'm not
paying. What are you gonna do now? Want to hear the answer? You'd be surprised what

you're going to get. You can always capitulate?

2a:00

The Victor What if you were in my shoes? What would you say right now?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

having said that, if you're driving a car, which is your life, if you look through the front
windshield, you can see what's coming on. If you spend your time looking in the rearview
mirror isn't the rearview mirror is very small. So what do you want to focus on? What's

coming over to the left to debt situation? So much for philosophy.

14:40

Fantastic. | love that answer. | love that. Okay. All right.

14:45

Anybody want to add anything? That's what they want anything? Yeah, a hand up there.

14:50

| just want to say over the | was at the seminar over the weekend, and then they gave us
some bonus videos and | watched a video talk of you And you recommended a book that
you wrote strategies for real estate. | read that over the weekend. Oh my goodness, I've

got the strategies for negotiation on order. It's supposed to be here tomorrow, but

Wost2

probably isn't negotiated out of print.

15:16

| got it on Amazon. It's coming tomorrow. Good. But | wanted to say the funniest thing to
me, what's your client? forget his name. His whole negotiation strategy was why he got 3

million off the price and

15:36

understand, understand it's not it's not only the word. It's how he said the what? Like
whatever you asked for, and he said, What like you insulted him? No, you How could you

like, that’s an outrageous thing. What am | saying what? Work
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

Die)

53:30

fully where George is coming from. He's saying just go through the negotiation. You can
always you can always capitulate. But you're not having a dialogue. Right now you're
negotiating with yourself. You're not negotiating with them?

53:52

Victor is absolutely right. You're coming up in your own mind with how much you're willing
to pay to solve this problem. You don’t know what they want, but you're coming out with
it. So you're negotiating against yourself. So you have to find out what they would what
they would be willing to take under very difficult circumstances, but they have to
understand their difficult circumstances. Which ones suppose you came in? What you
went on a following basis in this way? If you just say, I'm not paying you because I'm broke.

| can't afford to pay you. What do you think's going to happen?

54:33

They're gonna negotiate

94:35

the answer to question

54:38

they're gonna say what can you afford to pay?

54:40

Not this workout really can't afford this point. Problem is, | can't afford to pay anything.

How do we solve the problem? Who's going to come up with a solution? They are?

94:51

What are going to say? I'd like to hear it. Want to hear what they say? Then you can fight

then you can argue that
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

No, George, you're thinking like a lawyer logically. And that was an entertainment show.
That wasn't a debate.

06:16

This wasn't there wasn't was an entertainment. | mean, it’s well, you know what, I'm back.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It's like entertainment. If you watch two kids fighting in the mud, then
just that's entertainment. These are not two kids. These are this is serious stuff. And | think

at that point, the public, we're entitled to more than what they got.

06:37

| don't care how you want to spin it. But that that's my feeling. said that. We're our let's go

like next, we're not going to get anywhere on that one.

06:50

So George, this is a this is a life question. And it's a personal question, but it’s also a
universal question. None of us know how long we've got on this earth. Sure. You know, |
saw a Facebook post earlier this week, the gentleman who introduced My parents are
contemporary, my father. They studied dentistry together in the US Army. And this
gentleman, his name is Arthur Weiss. He had his practice in Manhattan behind the
Parkland hotel, in Central Park south. He’s gonna turn 99 this month. Wow. And his wife is
94. They're just the most amazing people have. We've been friends for years. And on the
other hand, | think you probably | think you met Stephen already. Oh, | think you wrote
something for one of his books. | think so. Yeah. He died this year at age 30.

07:40

At the age of 33. Yeah. Yeah. Wow.

07:44

You know, now. So the question is, what do we do with the time we have here? If you think
back 30 years ago, you would have been 62 years of age, at a time when social norms
would have said, You're a couple years from retirement? How do you make long term
plans? And here you are 3030 years later? admittedly, in the fourth quarter, what's your

planning horizon now? And how is your planning horizon changed over those past three
JO

Die)

JO

43:37

back off to default on the loan, | don't know how much it's going to cost you to they can
make a good but don't worry about it. When | say Don't worry about this understand the
basic philosophy, banks don't want to foreclose. They don't want to take over property
owner how to do it. The worst thing on their books is a loan that is not being paid.
Because they don’t know what to do with it and they have to report it to the higher ups
and they have to show it on their financial statement. They don't know how to run
properties. Okay, now they don't want to be taken taken down to the down the road to a
long foreclosure. foreclosures take a long period of time. It's long time, lots can happen in
a long time the market can change whatever, lots of things can happen. But the end result
is like paying your mortgage. So you building up the debt. They don't like when the debts
are built up. So what happens at some point you come back and say look, fellas, | owe you
$70,000 I'll pay you 10 How about that? If you say that's outrageous, well, how much will
you take your your garden your money arguing or negotiating from a different point
different point of view when you fought when you don't stop paying the obligation The
whole motive discussion changes. Because you have nothing to lose at the present time.
Maybe in the future you do but to the present time not to what happens in the interim. I'm
not paying you. I'm saving money. Yes, sir. I'M going to foreclose foreclosure. I'll fight the
foreclosure. I'll go into banks and say, Look, thank you, you made a bad loan. You lied to
me. You're getting too high interest rate. Up the 518. things that come up to make the
bank thinks twice and never say | didn’t do that. Yeah. But meanwhile, they're thinking
about how it looks on their books and how it looks in the executive. They do not want to
carry a loan that's in default. They don't want to carry it. What are they guys, we got to do

something to make it go away. What should we do? That's where you commit.

45:9/

| can understand that from a business standpoint, like | own a business, if a customer
comes up to me says, Hey, | owe you 10,000. | don't want to pay 10,000. I'll give you seven.
How about | won't give you anything? Yeah, so | would, | would take the seven and right
off the

46:13

top. Don't be quick to solve their problem. Don't be quick, you're going to solve it but you
don't have to be quick. You say good. | can't afford to pay what do you want to do? What
are they going to say? Your problem not mine? No, it's your problem as well because you

are going to you're going to take over the piece of property and it’s not you if you resell it,
JO

JO

JO

JO

00:40

No, | don't think there's anything needed to change anybody's mind. Nobody came up
with anything new. As far as | could see. Maybe | missed something. But | don't know.
Nobody, nobody answered any of the real questions as to what they're going to do or how
they're going to do it. And they didn't really answer any of the tough questions that were
asked. They were they just said whatever they wanted to say, and what the jabs at each
other. To me, it was really, you know, it was a long ways away from what is should be a real
debate. And | blame it on the moderator. or, or, in this case, Fox, what should have
happened was the following. There should have been questions, and they did the indicate,
and send the questions to both Biden and to Trump. Say, these are the questions, we're
going to want an answer specifically to those questions. Are you okay with it or not? If
they say they're okay with it, that’s fine. If they say they're not going after explain why
not? So I'm not going to answer any questions about this. Okay. And then what happens is
when they go on the air, they can explain the moderator can explain to the public, we
asked Joe Biden his question, he refused to answer it. We as trumped his question he
refused to answer and let the people decide what the effect is of the fact that he wouldn't
answer it. If it's a direct question, | think you should answer it, yes or no? If it's a yes or no
question. No, that's a great feeling. It would make for a more logical debate. And if the
moderator can say these are the rules under which they agreed to debate, and then tell
the tell the two contestants, these are the rules. Here's the question, you got two minutes
to answer it. But answer the question. Don't give me your philosophy on what's going on in
Spain? Just tell me the answer to the question. And | think that would make for a

legitimate debate.

02:42

| agree. | agree.

02:44

That's my feeling. But of course, I'm not involved in it. But it what happened yesterday was
a total fiasco, it made the United States and these two people the the ballclub look look
like kids throwing mud. And it didn’t enhance anything. Nobody changed their position.
Nobody would have to change their position, because you didn’t know what the position

was. Nobody was explicit. Other than that, | loved

03:13
JO

JO

JO

JO

big better if it costs you to seven grand do seven grand go on with the real is with your life,
too bad deal. So what you're gonna be done with it would have would have was a snake
ubco they're all over in every business. It's part of doing business, that you take a loss and
just move on to the next. Don't be a hero for the rest of the world. Unless you're a lawyer
and you thrive on class actions, which are not that's my feeling. But that’s no matter what
the last one. If it's not going to adversely affect your life, that's not something that's so
important that you got to you're gonna have to resolve it. Go past and say, gee, I'm not
happy. I'll never use that guy again. I'm going to write bad letters to the to the Better
Business Bureau. I'm going to taint him. Now you want to send a nasty letter, send a nasty
letter. Or and if you want to heal if you got a lawyer who works cheap ask him to send a
nasty letter. nasty letter. Look, the roof is bad shape, but that all over the place? I'm going
to sue your ass off and I'm going to do I'm gonna do a class action. You're not going to do
it, you know, you're not going to do it. But nevertheless, maybe that'll get you the result.
Maybe the movie says badly. You know what? I'll give you $2,000? Back $5? | don't know.

But that's as far as it goes. in my estimation.

21:30

Very good. Okay. And even even if it's a couple grand that could go up. Yeah.

21:37

It's not worth the aggravation. Right? And not only that, you can't you keep doing it over
and over again. You say, hey, this guy's getting away with giving me a shoddy roof. That's
true. That hurts. But Welcome to the world. People will very often get compensated
compensated for something that they didn't do, right, or they didn’t do good and so forth.
That's that's part of it. Move on. If it doesn’t affect your lifestyle dramatically at that point,

forget it and take it serious. It’s just part of the course of doing business.

22:12

Thank you. Okay.

22:15

Okay. Next, this question is from Matt. Matt, you want to go ahead. George, how are you?
JO

JO

JO

22:25

I'm fine. How are you?

22:26

Not too bad. Question tonight, a little bit of a long one. But | get through it for you. So my
partners and | are developing a condo building here in Ottawa, we're still assembling the
land. during negotiations within neighboring parcel, we had a bit of a snag, the
homeowner isn't open to selling her homes a historic Victorian style home. And she's the
oppose the idea of us demolishing it to build her product. She doesn't want to move into a
modern style home, she wants to keep hers. In the process, we came up with the idea of
moving the existing home to a new site to make the deal work. | have reached out to the
neighbor across the street, in fact, and to negotiate a purchase to try and get the house
to be able to move across Street, the owner is open to the idea. However, our price is way
off. We offered $775,000 for the purchase, which is actually above market value for what
his project is what his houses. But during the conversation, he mentioned that you may be
interested in trading for one of our new condos where the new condos would be valued
approximate about $950,000, including Park. Now, can you give us a bit of an idea on
how to proceed in this negotiation, your pitfalls to doing this as a way to keep the upper

hand on negotiating it.

23:46

Okay, keep the upper hand he's got the property. That's the thing. You got no upper hand
you want something that somebody else has got. So that there's no upper hand if he the
other way, if you had something that he wanted you then you got the upper hand. Now,
the from what you're what you're saying or doing is that | think that the approach was
wrong. When | say the approach was wrong, very often, you when you're dealing with
someone, especially in this case, it was it was a Victorian home and interested in you have
to listen to what they don't say not what they do say. So at this point, forget putting
numbers or nobody knows how much it is. How important is it for you to live in this house?
I'd like to hear the answer. And they say well, it’s very important. You say What do you
mean? Why is it very important? Well, I've had a family for years. | like the house. I've been
there I'm very comfortable. Alright, now you got that answer. Well, suppose | took the
house at this point and | moved rebuilt it on another lot right nearby. But with that said,
Would you be interested in that? No. Yes, whatever it is. So they come and they say no,
they say, Well, good. Is there any basis any arrangement that you would be willing to do

to give to sell me your house? They say, | don't know. Well, what do you got? Mike? How
Olles

PC - George Ross Mastermind -
September 2020

q@ lue,9/141214PM @ 58:53

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, pay, unit, negotiation, money, answer, point, people, house, building, lawyer,

roofing company, roof, problem, negotiating, bank, understand, lease, fine, real estate

JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

00:00

Okay. Well, welcome George, did you watch the debate last night? Or if | can call it that it

was more like a dumpster fire than a debate?

00:08

| think it could really call it a debate. | think it was horrible. | think it was disgraceful for
both the, to the to blame for Donald and also for Joe Biden. And | thought the mediator at

that point lost total control.

00:24

If he ever had, if he ever had it. Yeah.

00:28

No, | think it's was a disgrace. But, Toby, it’s done.

00:36

You think that the debate will change anyone's mind?
JO

JO

JO

Die)

JO

blowing the grass | got somebody takes care of it. So you show the advantages of where
she is as to where she wouldn't be, which is possibly dollars and maybe other emotional
factors. And that's good. Okay. Okay, interesting question for sure. Thanks. Okay. Yeah,
what's next?

33:40

So next? Let’s go to Rajon. | don't either.

33:45

Yeah. Hey, Josh, thanks for your time. You're welcome. So, we have not done like we have
bought like apartment complexes, which are fully leased, or at least stabilized. So we
recently came across this deal in Tennessee. This is 112 unit, newly built complex. They've
got like, they've got like 25% so it's a it's a set of like four buildings. One of them is
complete and has a CEO and is occupied so it’s 25% occupied. The other three are going
to be done by December and that's when they will get the CEO for all the other three
buildings. So if we if we come to a price and we can price this what kind of clauses you
think we need to put there are or what would be the main concerns that should bother us

getting into contract in a deal which is which does not have a CEO right now.

34:36

Well, that’s a big deal you get you're gonna be subject to anything. Is your subject area co
subject to mortgage today to environmental inspections that the fact that it has a
condition is not unusual? What is unusual? | don’t know where is where is this property

located?

34:54

This is in Tennessee,

34:57

Tennessee. Yes. And you're in New York. Yes. Okay. You don't see a problem with that?
JO

Die)

JO

11:00

| by Greg and I, what | find upsetting to me. It’s not that it's a lifestyle. But | have so many
friends or people that were acquaintances, they're in my age bracket, give or take 10
years. And they like resigned from the human race. Why what do you give something
back? Why don't you go to a hospital read to a kid? Why don't you mentor, especially
mentor some of the the people coming from lesser surroundings were colleges, making
available your expertise? Why not doesn't cost you anything. And if it didn’t cost you time,
it's fine. It's worthwhile. My philosophy of life, which I'm very content is, | want to have
given back more than | took. | love that. | love that. That's it. That's it. That's my life. And
that makes me happy. And if but there’s a balance between the money you come in and
what you spend in charities and what you're doing with in your lifestyle and in church or in
your family, all of that is balanced. | feel so deep with the relationship you and | have is
not a result is not because of the money. But if you want to if you want a bigger a bigger
check, that's okay, too. But but it’s not. It’s the same look, | have been where all of you are
you have not been where | am. So there's a long span difference. I've done more real
estate deals and big real estate deals and interpret transactions just happened to me
because of who | represented under the law practice that | had said, if | can make that
information available to other people, why not? That was one of the reasons | wrote the
books. So that's everybody figure out their own lifestyle. You know, somebody wants to ask
me, if Trump becomes president, would you be the Secretary of State? This was before he
was elected? And | said no, if he became the president, | would like to be the ambassador
to a nice island with a nice beach. And | lie on the chaise lounge and say, Oh, no muss,
pina colada pull off of war. That would be my lifestyle. Whatever happened in the course.

Okay, does that answer whatever? Anybody else want to add something to this?

13:29

Because the only other question is, so you know, the concept of planning horizon, the
horizon is, as far as you can see, you can't see over the horizon. Yeah. So are you putting
together one year plans five year plan? Oh,

13:45

hey, we'll put them together one year, play a test, ask whoever’s up in charge. And that's a
woman because he can't tell me that it’s not a woman because it's too unpredictable.
Now, so that, you can play it all you want. Fine. Whether you do it or not. I'm a firm
believer that everybody's got a date. You don't know what it is, which is fine, but it's

written somewhere and that's all you got. You don't know when. But having said that,
JO

JO

JO

about if | gave you a brand new condo? We're not talking numbers. That's the problem. No
number, we're talking concept. Alright, if you say so concept, you say if, if | gave you a
condo unit, that was twice the value of your house, would you be interested in? Working
here to answer yes or no? Did we talk what the value of the house was? No. When we talk
in concept, or no, if the answer says yeah. If that was, if he gave me a unit that was twice
the value of my house, | would like that. Don’t we sooner or later have to get to the value
of the house and the value of the unit. So now you say if they bought the concept, say yes,

| will be interested in good. How much do you think your house is worth?

26:14

| think the house is worth a million and a half. How did you get to that number? Like the

the answer, probably pulled it out of the air.

26:22

Now, if you come back and say, Well, look, here’s the information on similar type houses,
and they go for basically your 600,000. Now you're gonna have to say, here's the list, I'm
basically saying, but it’s really worth 600,000. And there's no it’s not as worth a million.
How did you get to a million? I'd like to hear the answer. Now, listen, they could make it
they can say you How did you get to 600,000? Well, | checked the market for similar
houses such as yours. And this is what it goes for. You don't have to tell them how many
houses you looked at or where the market was. If unless they have done their own search,
which they don't do. they'll accept what you said. Or this is what my real estate broker
said, | gotcha. | can get you a statement from somebody who's a qualified appraiser. And
he'll tell you what it's worth. You see how we will move women over him? Is he will how
we're getting to making a deal. And have we talked money? No. We do our concept. If
they buy the concept, and you can fill in the blanks, if they don't buy the concept. If you
say, Look, I'm staying in this house, and I’m not moving under any set of facts. If you
believe that. Do what you say, how did you arrive at that conclusion? | want to hear what
she says. What are you going to say? | don't know. But I'd like to hear it and then take that
apart?

27:57

Do | have any power in the fact that it’s actually the homeowner that suggested the

possible trade?
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

JO

JO

JO

15:57

fantastic book just wanted to say that

16:00

| think is more iffy. When you get to the the other book the Trump stat Trump style
negotiation. There's a lot in there, which is very helpful for anyone who's involved in real
estate or just you're involved in life, which is going on. And the interesting part is that book
has been translated into 17 languages, including orthodox Chinese, where they read up

and down left to right. So it's got worldwide implications. Besides the royalties tonight.

16:30

| hope | ordered the English one.

16:33

Well, | don't know do you read anything else? But fine. Anybody else got any questions?
You want to talk about life? Let's do it. If not, let's move on to real estate or business.

Okay. Take it away.

16:51

Okay. Right. So this next question is from Sep. Sep once you go ahead.

16:57

Victor. Hey, George, thank you for taking my question.

17:01

So the first thing is, | find it very objectionable. You got much more here than | have.

17:08

It's not a good thing. Not a good thing. Well, I'm only gonna get married. Yeah. Well, |
JO

JO

JO

JO

it. Yeah, it was, it was worth at least a pound of popcorn.

03:18

Yeah, that's right. It is good. Unless it was really good popcorn. And. But that’s what it was.
And so be it. | read over it. To me, it was, to me, it was a waste of an audience. You have, |
don't know how many how many millions of people watching it in the United States as
rocked the world. And this is what you gave him. This is what you work to what they
usually the two top men in the United States look at it are or how they handle things.
You're going to call the president united states a cloud. | mean, | think that's
inappropriate. Because the cloud is funny. This is not funny. Yeah. But same thing. So it’s,
that's my feeling on it. | don't think it makes that much of a difference in the overall
because we got a lot of time between now and the the election. But one of the questions
that was asked there was dodged, which | think was very appropriate. Is Trump asked a
Biden Do you intend or they look, the question was asked Joe Biden, do you intend were
you do you intend to increase to pack the court? If you're elected? easy question. Yes or
no? never answered. Never required to answer. But | think that's that's that’s important to
take into account when people are voting for Biden. What's his position on packing
Nucor? If, you know the court now is going to be it’s going to turn out to be nine people,
supposedly six and three is far as they they're logical and how they how they vote,
supposedly. And what are you going to do? Change it to 15? What do you say no? title to

an answer.

05:20

If you can print money, you know, trillions of dollars. Why can't

05:25

we agree with that? But your title image? Are you going to pack the court? Yes or no? How
can you How can you not answer? You can say | choose not to answer that's fine. Let the
people decide what that means. That's my feeling is | think the questions were good. But
nobody, they never answered you went off on tangents and whatever it is, they want to
say or ideas. They talk about COVID they talk about the the going back to school, they

talk about the way the economy, which are all good questions, but nobody ever answered.

06:10
JO

jo

JO

JO

as part of it. As part of his conditions, you're you're the buyer. And you go through your
sentence, all by the your input, here's what has to happen. Okay, now you have to get me
a CEO. And you have to have a tenant. You give me the CEO and the tenant, I'll give you
a check. Okay, that's fine. That's good. And if he says | can't do it for the following reason
that | got a problem with this with the municipality, they won't approve it, but it’s not
going to use your colleagues is going to have the problem was they'll agree. If you meet
the environmental regulations and you meet whatever else With each minister services,
whatever, that's fine. They can say, Okay, I'll meet that. But | don't have to meet as a
package. Okay, | need it for each individual unit will, will be part of the package. So you'll
be satisfied with

40:18

it. Okay, rush on, there's with most projects, especially new construction like this, as
usually, as a condition of getting the construction financing, the lender will require an as
built appraisal, and they'll often require a third party market study. Yeah, what absorption
would be and all of that they

40:42

have they given you those studies? are no this this popped up into into our inbox like four
days ago. Okay, so we have we have had like, like zero experience doing this. We like the
location, we like the asset. We were just contemplating if it's even worth deviating from
our formula, which is buying Class B, Class B plus stabilized 85 90% occupied stuff. So so
we thought like before, before we start diving into what kind of discounts we need, how
we're going to lend up the financing for this, let's just ask, what are the risks getting into
something like this?

41:16

Well, but I, Victor raises a very, very important point, who's, who's giving you the guidance

as to what these buildings are worth? Well,

41:27

they are, we are, we are underwriting them as stabilized product. And then looking at like
the lease of time and everything right now we have not not not not no guidance on that.

So we're gonna reach out to the letters of
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

Good. Thank you so much. This was awesome.

57:19

The early what | find with a lot a tremendous number of real estate developers, is they
can't make the transition to what they think to what the bankers think. Let's say a banker
was smart. You'd be in a real estate business. You're not smart, only one knows will make
loans and not have been in trouble and say, Okay, I've got my money back. That's all we
want to do is get their money back. That's what they want. The philosophy is entirely
different. If they want us to take risks and chances to be in real estate, and get the
benefits they don't really want to see is you got my money with the return and don't make
any waves. Don't you'd like to put yourself in there for the new shoes and that's the

philosophy. You're going to come up short.

58:15

Okay, fantastic. Next time. Yes, George. Thank you, George. Have a great evening.

per22

Thank you. You too. Been been very interesting things work out. But if you're in a you're in

the business there, you got to you got to be

Dee

aware of there are potential risks in any type of real estate. If the reward is great enough
you do it. Fantastic. All right. Can | charge Dennis Senate for we got to set that one for

next month.

58:49

Yes, yes. I'll give you I'll give you a call.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

41:37

reference. If you want to figure out or come into your, in your own mind whether or not
what you're doing is worthwhile. Get an expert in the field, who will give you an idea or an
appraisal as to what the market is, and then see what it makes sense. Yep, what you do,
and then you got to do the appraisal that you can also use that as inflammation against
the seller, also against the municipality. So here, | got an expert. He says, here's what I'm
building is beautiful. You're going to love it, the taxes are going to be fine. That's it's
helpful, but deal with the experts. What happens if you get you get somebody that’s really
knowledgeable, he comes back and says, hey, these things are never going to lease. That
point, you're going to put your check back in your pocket and go home. That's what you
need the experts. Okay, let's go out and do next one. What's next? Let's go to see you.

Hello, George. Hi, here. How are you?

42:46

Fantastic. How are you? I'm great. So | took your advice. Yeah. Turn the bank. I'm not

paying you. Yeah. I'm not paying you. | consult with my mortgage broker

43:03

to get to get started with your blog. He happened to forget who was your lawyer said, and
you consulted with you? Listen up. Listen, you listen to that you listen to the voices that

don't have the courage to bring it to a conclusion.

43:21

They hit me with $70,000 in legal fees for the banks that | know personally, that would

stay with me.

43:26

So put it who you know, what do you personally? How do you go to the bank.

43:31

So they're saying if | default on the loan, they
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

38:23

Well, ah, | assume the seller wants to get out quick. | mean, assumingly elections are here
or something. So they listed it before they should have. So they are trying to mitigate the
risk, which we're not on it. |

38:37

didn't know you, were you saying the seller is living is mitigating your risk? Right. So who's
putting the conditions that you have to sell these units? Or you have to lease the US
before the sale?

38:48

Right? Well, we want them to be leased up to a certain extent before we buy them. So we

are the buyers here.

38:55

Okay. Okay. You want to release who's leasing them?

38:59

The seller is leasing them. Good.

39:00

Okay. So yep, | assume your contract will be conditional upon him, at least them. Okay?

When you get no money when you lease it

39:10

out. So you will you will not suggest you get into something where it's contingent on the
CEO at alll, like have him clear this up and then then talk

39:18
