JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

Jo

Jo

30 days at this point that you can't it's so the first of all 30 days, which you have a lot of loss, maybe a practical, he
may need longer than that, on the other hand, is nothing to say in 30 days, if he can't do it in 30 days, how about
getting an extension, put up a little put up some more money and get an extension? So yes, we'll do it 30 days. But if |
need more, | can get more by giving you additional deposit, that oh, that could get you almost the whole six months.
If they figure they have enough money in check, they'll go along with it. So you may have to add something as a
sweetener to do it, and | know so you can indicate who the purchases or other tickets, that you're a syndicate, you're
coming from all different places. And it gives us a problem. You got all the aces, they've had the property for a long
period of time, and they've got everybody's little piece of the problem. So it should all be yours. So they can really
dictate the terms as long as you're acting failing.

58:06

So that's it. That's a good idea, George. So let's say if you calculate the daily holding cost to pick a number 500 a
day, yeah, you say we'll give you 500 a day for every day pass.

58:16

losing it. I'm saying are getting an additional bank deposit to make you feel better. You don't have to wait six months
here, good woman put up | put up X number of dollars for 30 days, I'll put up another another X number of dollars for

another 30 days.

58:32

Would that be hard money or soft money?

58:34

It's hard money for closers. So if it doesn't accomplish, if they don't deliver what they're supposed to deliver, you have
a problem then it's off money. On the other hand at that point if you just want if you decided you want to walk as

hard money

58:56

Awesome. Thank you, sir.

58:57

Okay, you're welcome.

58:58

Fantastic. Oh, great call. I'm going to review the recording for this a couple of times. There's a lot packed in there.
JO

JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

59:06

Yeah. covered a lot of juice here.

59:08
We absolutely did. Well, thank you, George. Have a great holiday. Happy Hanukkah. Everyone.

59715

Right, let's let's get this COVID thing straightened out. Absolutely. That does make a big difference in Novi. Anybody
dealing with real estate for sure.

59:26

Yes, indeed. Okay, thank you everyone. Have a great night.

59731
Okay, to give you a quick

59:33

can | charge
Jo

JO

JO

Jo

JO

JO

JO

45:29

that do what you have to do is if you're buying it, whatever it is, you could you control it. But this don't do but get a
timeframe you can live with. Okay, to do the engineering is the study everything that you need reasonable period of
time to do it. | don't know what it would be because of the track. But whatever it is, that's what you're entitled to. And
if you're telling these got to close, in what Mark when when March, my sorry, march 1 Quarter, you got plenty of time,
our close contracts in five days, I've closed contracts without it without a contract of sale. We couldn't agree with this
guy couldn't agree, couldn't agree with the seller, and the lawyer as to the terms of the contract. So | said, Okay,
we've agreed on a price $3 million, all show up with a check for $3 million. You delivered the deed and went down
there and got the title man there to do the whole thing, no contract. But that’s exceptional. Can be done. | don't

recommend it. But nevertheless, if it can be done if it has to be done. Okay, we drew you ready? Good luck.

46:42

All right. Well, let's go to Matt. | think we almost have a similar question from Matt in a slightly different situation. Are
you on the line?

46:55
Yeah, | dropped off,

46:57

or did he? Okay. All right. So I'll ask the question then on his behalf, he had two questions. This is one way he’s
negotiating aligned assembly with a slightly greedy and emotionally unpredictable. Owner.

47:14

That's it? That's every every owner?

47:16

Yes, exactly. So it’s been a bit of a moving target. And the owners acting with a presumption of agreement when in

fact agreement doesn't exist. Yeah. What strategies would you recommend for trying to pin the owner down?

47:35

Very simple? Very simple. That's an easy question with an easy answer. Get the owners, the owners attorney to get us
a letter of intent for all of the terms that the owner wants. And then you argue on the letter of intent? Do you see
what's what's important you can when at the point you can pick them apart, but now you know where they can
come back into and, and give you a moving target. One's gonna say, what's the purchase price, you're gonna say
purchase price is what I'd like to get. The purchase price is X dollars, has it paid all of the basic terms, not a contract.
But all of the basic terms, not the legal terms completely, would be in the letter of intent, and you have the seller's
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

TOUTE WeICOINe. UKAY, QOOO Question. ANA ILS very, very smart Or Le Parl OF ANY MUNICIDAlILY. Sreaqe laead.

28:49
Okay, next, let's go to Amy in Salt Lake City.

28:56

We got me where |? Do we have any? | don’t hear anyone.

29:01

See? See me twice. | think you're muted, though. | can't hear you though.

29:14

Here, let me unmute. You're connected twice. Why don't you retry reconnecting? And then we'll come back to you.
Okay, Amy. All right. Let's go to Paul.

29:27
Oh, ice area. Okay.

29:31

George, I'm so | got a question for. So | work with a small team of people. And we have multiple projects in the
pipeline, and people are starting to get a little stretched, then. In your experience with all the projects and clients
that you've had over the years, how did you decide how much capacity a team could handle? And what are the best
strategies to prevent overloading the people you're working with so that you can

29:57

do very, very, very, very good question. Yes. And it requires a lot of knowledge of how good your people are and how
they can work on depression. But | think the key, the solution is prioritizing their D do events. Mm hmm. So now if
they got 10, projects list of one to 10. Let him concentrate on number 123. And four, because they're the most
important if they never get to 10. So why? Yeah. But what happens very often in businesses is they say, Hey, we've got
all this business go do it. To their, to their staff and their staff at deputies gets caught up in the minutiae of
management items, which are relatively unimportant, but they never sorted them in priority. Now, if you do it to get
him to focus on this, it was a boss, whoever the bosses says, Look, here it is, we got five items. This you do number
12345. If you never got to five, but you did 124. That's okay.

S07
get that view, he’s not going to get somebody else in the same three days. Nobody's going to agree to that. Unless

they're desperate, and | don't see any reason that they would be desperate. It’s totally unrealistic. Especially with it
with a project this size. It’s not a

A 43:33
small Yes, | guess then the downside of we're trying to push because we have the eight acres in the front. We're trying
to put it all together for
A 43:44
that. | don't wait. | understand where you're coming from, do the best you can with it. But don’t get don't get hung up
with anything arbitrary that didn't get the sight of the holder of the contract is putting on you because he would feel
better about it. Right? You put up more money or this point? No, that's not it. You're going on? He's agreed to the
price. You've agreed to the price. And he knows you're realistic, because you already bought acres. So you're the
most logical buyer.
A 44:13
Right? Except for they did. | mean, sometimes they're acting not logically because they did sell a trapezoid in the
middle of our property to somebody else because we weren't forward.
A 44:29
So they sold it to us so they don't have 24 they don't have all the acreage they got a load to the swap. If he had
somebody better, they wouldn't be taught dealing with you. Okay. Okay, that's the way to go. Don't ever worry about
somebody coming up with a screw with a straw man always had to have somebody to pay more for it and faster. If
they did, they would do that.
CQ 44:55
| guess that’s true. | guess
A 44:56
what happens? What happens if that person That party disappears. You can renegotiate your term. Because now
you know that you're paying more than somebody else who got turned down. To all negotiating, it's a, it's creating a
straw man for you to bid against, don't fall for.
A 45:18

| guess | just want the project secured so that | can keep | don't want to work on the project for engineering traffic
studies, | don't know
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

36:38

time frame or hardware to try and frame come from

36:42

that came from the wholesaler as well.

36:45

What what's the time frame from what

36:48

his contract is that it would have to close in February and March?

SG:52

That's different to closing in March. You're right. We're already in December, the big big deal. Who cares? All right,
that's not a timeframe, timeframe to short the week, 10 days, whatever. That's the timeframe. Okay, now, we'll pick
the timeframe,

37:06

we won't be able to have like, we like to close on dirt, raw dirt. When once we have a preliminary plat.

a7 13

| understand where you're coming from? | don’t mean to cut you off, but | will, is that I'm saying What's the
timeframe? We'll put the timeframe on what is the timeframe? timeframe, you have to do why

37:28

we have to close on the land.

37:30

Great. Yep. What do we you know, let's put it this way, is to just the closing on the land is with the seller, right to
closing on the assignment and a contract is with the wholesaler. Right? turns this turns of the sale with the seller
have already been originally written in the contract that was that the wholesaler had. So we're not negotiating with

the seller at the present time, but we are trying to negotiate with the wholesaler. Right?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

37:57

Yeah. So for the wholesalers, the smallest part, their their fee is not that large. It's not that it’s that we're paying 2.2
million for the dirt. And yes, it looks terrific on the surface level with everything. But you know, we haven't been able

to do with environmental tests.

38:17

The environment, what arrangements did you make with the wholesaler? Who put the timeframe on?

38:24

| guess that’s the problem is that the wholesaler created the terms directly for the seller.

38:31

No, no, no, wait, wait, does this there’s the seller what what under the contract with the wholesaler has with the
seller? What are the terms? What's what timeframe is there? Or is it is it is it's an agreement it's got its Is there
anything there that hurt you? In a says says on a certain day show up? We just check right? Right. Okay. Now,

38:55

what it is there’s no there's no due diligence. There's no no no

38:59

diligence, the due diligence between what's the arrangement between the wholesaler and the the seller of the
property. As far as due diligence is concerned, you have a contract, which he could provide for due diligence with a
period of time or no due diligence and says take it as it is. What's the rate that you're you're bound by that
agreement because that's what's in existence. Right? So if the wholesaler, if those if the if the terms of the original
agreement with the seller, say, hey, I'll give you three days to make a decision. You're bound by that. On the other
hand, if the wholesaler comes to you and say, | want you I'll give you three days to make your decision. That's a
different story. That's an arbitrary why, why three days to go want to sell to somebody else be my guest. He’s more
likely to deal with you because you already bought some of the property he's already had you there. So to time, the
problem with timeframes is are they arbitrary? Or are they fixed? So a time frame which is fixed as it has to close by
the end of the by the end of the year, for tax purposes that's fixed, on the other hand is yep, | want you to do it in
three days. So | know | have a deal.

40:19

So why know? The wholesalers contract directly with them. And | guess we could try to negotiate with the wholesaler
to negotiate with the seller, we don't know.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

~ ~ ~ ~

They're going to buy probably some kind of wedding store. So Rico, and the chances are they will buy it there. Have
the the alterations done there. Not to save that it’s also depends on nobody goes and buys a wedding gown to save
a few dollars. It’s not there. That's it. | have to say all right. | mean, people pay 1000s of dollars for one night for a
wedding gown. | say well, my daughter likes it. That's what | want. So it's it depends on who's buying it and what
what the purpose is. It’s just An item for a particular point in time and has no specific meeting. That's easy. Getting

by it anyway. We'll do it anyway. Yeah, yeah.

15:13

Okay. Well, very, very interesting discussion. We're going to obviously see how this plays out over the next several
months. John, you had our comment or question related to this, this aspect? | think you're still muted.

15:30

| see. | see Jama over here. Hi, John. | was talking, | just left it. So hi, George, do you remember Service Merchandise?
What do you mean, it was a chain and they were quite popular nationwide? What they were was basically, they had
one of every item ona shelf. Yeah. And you'd walk in and you look at it, and then you put it in order and it would
come down and conveyor belt. Yeah. It seems to me that that on our discussion that we just had that type of show
room, but it’s really just a showroom fronting a warehouse out back model might come back into favor. What do you
go back and favorite never, it never went out of favor, but someone's got to warehouse it somewhere. Question as
you were using space, you use the space for sales and space for warehousing. The closer you put your warehousing
to your space for sales, the more expensive it becomes. Because you're using valuable you're using valuable space for

non saleable not no sales.

16:47

Although with a warehouse, you can stack things nine levels deep or you can

16:51

stack nine levels deep. But the question is, how close is it to your right, your sales your point of sale. If it's close to
your point of sale, then you it becomes more valuable. If on the other hand, there's a delay in getting it from the
warehouse to the to the point of sale. That's a problem. You have to wait two days most cars are wait two days. If
you have to wait 15 minutes, maybe. So the console in many in many stores. Some of them very successfully, so not
so successfully. And depending on what you're selling and the price that you're selling it and how easily you can
handle it. It works. | somehow can see somebody showing 40 different models of TVs that are 70 inches wide and
having them shipped from the from the warehouse into yours store. So people can look at | can see being in the
store so that they can pick out the model they want or the manufacturer they want but not transporting it from a

warehouse to the point of sale.

18:02

All right, right. Okay, well, why don't we move into questions from from the group here? Why don't we start with with
SAP? You had a couple of very good questions. And you're dealing with a sticky issue. Are you there?
JO

_JO

JO

JO

CMIN GS STTY PIM IR BEI YY We Ee MUU CUI EOI PIU FEISS VEMIS GEIS PIS TE We YE yu Pre MYueEVIFDe trie yuure

gonna collect it. But it looks good. I've been sued for a million dollars. Thank you guys fight is going to have a
judgment for a million No. On a slip and fall case, forget it. Depending upon the nature of the injuries may be good
for 510 $1,000. Very put that the insurance, worried about not you don't worry about the numbers always like to put
big numbers on it. And when somebody slips and falls here, as far as the papers, it looks like they're incapacitated for
life. Because it looks good and writing too long different never goes to the jury if it does go to the jury to go to throw
it out or take it down. On the other hand, there are certain claims, which you can't win. Even if you're right. If you
have a claim, and it comes up and you have a child or somebody that was severely injured, without any liability on
your part, if that case goes to the jury, a jury is going to say, Hey, let the insurance company pay. Forget whether or
not there was any negligence on the on the part of the other part of the plaintiff that they should have seen
something or they didn't see something that no it’s not going to be. So you have to know the nature of the case
depends on the nature of the plaintiff. It's one thing to have a case where you have a 90 year old person that got
injured. All right. But there's a big difference when you have a 20 year old and zingy because of difference of how
long the injury is going to last. But that what are we involved? Don't like standard negligence lawyer. As lawyers, |
never objected to lawyers making a lot of money.

23:39

No. George, in SEPs case, he sold the building so he no longer owns Yeah,

23:40

it wouldn't make a dent he sold in a cabinet. It's kind of it’s you got insurance company. I'll go on to the next.

23:46

Well, there's one more wrinkle. | just want to throw in here to get your perspective. One of the questions when you are
dealing with a refinance or a financing, is there any litigation or pending litigation at that point? It could complicated
refinance on a property. What's your

24:03

personal liability? Unless there’s no personal liability, not you'd say it usually is taken through an LLC or a limited
liability, and you got insurance, they don't care. They're not going to take the property away. It's not going to be
happening. So it's not it’s an area where | think we're talking about something which is relatively unimportant in the

overall scheme of business operations.

24:30

Okay, makes sense. Thank you. Except you had one more question.

24:37

Yeah, so great advice. Second question is one of the states that we invest in they are offering an emergency COVID

rental arrears assistance program for landlords so basically, the state will pay landlords up to six months of back rent

fae Anis FARAH LAAN NEAR IR REAR RAR AF AAI AR AKA LAA LAR AR HAA BAA IA RA A HLA AE PBA AAR KA AR NEFA AEAA Ais COW/ID
JO

JO

Oo
O)

Oo
O)

~ I

deteriorated. However, there are certain stores, which have had problems because of the COVID. That if you give
them the opportunity to survive, and give them some type of rent incentive, or there'll be they'll be fine, they'll work
out over a period of time, people still need to merchandise however, the prudent landlord has to make a decision
whether or not you want to evict them because they're not paying their rent, which was which predated previously
paid, or you want to keep them on Rise, my suggestion is keep on as long as you can. Alright, and work some kind of
a deal. Now, there’s another way working on whatever happened to getting percentage. If the sales go good, you get
to see get a percentage. So you say to the tenant look, I'm going to give you a reduction in rent. But if your sales go
above a certain amount, you give me 5%, when a certain percent of your sales when they reach above the level that
you needed to survive. So if you're making a profit, I'll give you a benefit, penny less right now. But if you do very well,
on the uptick, | get more money. | would by all means do whatever you can to keep them in business. Because | what
| do see is if you have vacant stores in a particular area, and you're looking it gets much worse, because the area
looks terrible. And when people go by | don't want to shop in an area with five stores have vacant side by side or
they're a 10 out of old block. They like to see something new striving so do it, do what you can to keep those retailers

in business.

12:03

As a.as a landlord, if you are dealing with a lender, and you've got loan covenants and all the rest, how do you

negotiate loan terms with your lender, if your rent is variable,

T2715

it's the same thing with your lender, you got the same thing. There’s lenders are in the same category, they don't
want to foreclose, they don't want to take back like a building or a block where 50% of the stores are vacant, or
tenants are having a problem. Banks want to get paid. So they have to be flexible too. So it's a situation where there
were ample opportunity to negotiate all the way up the line. Because the bank wants to get paid, they can’t get paid
if the store is vacant. And nobody pays they can't and the tenant who agreed to or the the borrower who agreed to
pay is paying it based upon the fact that | was getting ready for rent from my tenants. If | don't get rent from my
tenants, how can | tell you that and banks will have to work along with they will. So everybody up the chain is going
to have to give a bit until there is some degree of recovery, which they will be there’s no question in my mind, there
will be a recovery. This is because this pandemic was artificially induced was not a situation where the business
where business was bad. People didn't have money. It wasn't that this is just something that went across the gamut
of problems, a totally unforeseen, not because people didn't want to buy Where do you have a problem? Where are

you about to buy the illness?

13:43

Well, we certainly even saw a trend. For example, you talked a little bit at the beginning about specialty shops, and
we've seen it in certain sectors, like say wedding dresses, people would go to the wedding gallery, they would try on
the dress, they know it's going to be altered anyway. So they say okay, | like to dress thanks very much for showing it
to me and they go buy it online for $800 less, and take it to the tailor.

14:04

Well, yeah, but that depends on who who's selling it. Right? It depends on if you if you want to Vera Wang, you're not
going to go in online truth. Oh, it's dependent. So it’s just a wedding dress. Yes, it could be interchangeable. All right,
however, until they figure out where it's where they’re going to buy it from, you're going to have to qo to a store.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

55:01
Okay, okay,

59:03

what's next? Oh, we finished pretty close to the end.

55:05

Let's see, we have Matt, are you back on the line? No. Okay. Let's see who else do we do we? Let's go to Dave Kafka.
You had a question?

5a22

Hey, George, how are you sir?

55:24
I'm sharp boy. That's it. That's impressive. Thanks for

55:28

taking my call or my question. So I'm negotiating on a 56 acres subdivision with about 30. lats. The subdivision has
been for sale for a long time. And it's always been in financial stress, with about $3 million in debt at 12% interest.
The sellers are asking six and a half million. We have an agreeable four and a half million. So the numbers work. The
issue is the closing time the sellers. They want 30 Day close. And we the syndicators want six months. Now there's

56:09

71, syndicators, your syndicators? Well, it’s a it's

56:13

three people as three Canadians, and they have asked me to be a part of it, because, you know, | live in Belize, and
they don't live here. So they asked me to be a part of this Canadian syndication company. Yeah. So the the sellers
are a bank, a private citizen, a lawyer that's representing the estate, and a lawyer, that’s part of the lien holder, same
lawyer representing the estate is the lawyer as the lien holder. So my question, it’s just impossible to do a 30 day
close with 30. Lots, getting the title, you know, searches done. Okay, at least how how would you recommend, | can
negotiate to extend that, that 30 Day close, not

57:00
JO

JO

Wy CP IH OH OF OMS VSI EH YE ITY IS Pee OY Veer iy erie YUVveryi rrr gery ty YY YUEN UY IYveE YE Ie

some of the things you said, | think are misleading. When you say that when effectively said like retail sales have
gone up 15 to 25%, it depends on the item. Truth on retail sales, generally, it’s the item, certain aspects of retail sales
that are very strong and will continue to be strong, others are not strong, because you can easily do it online. So you
have to differentiate between that which which would be sold in a brick and mortar store and that which can be sold
easily online. And there's a big difference. For example, specialty items cannot be sold online as easily. People like to
see the size they like to see the column like to try it on. And they like to have the opportunity to shop a whole
different lines show you on mangoes, for sure, you may want five or six different shirts, different colors, different
whatever is women, especially when they do specialty items. The ones that sell easily online and the ones that don't
have to be pre packaged into cosmetics, for example. That's fine, they can be sold online very easily anything which
doesn't require individual taste or trying on. So | think it’s not necessarily the big box stores which are going to
disappear. | think what it'll be is the big box stores as they were known in the past because they have merchandise
they have given space to merchandise which no longer has to be sold or appropriately can be can be sold in a big
department store. It's gone, it will be gone. Now that people are not going to be there, they don't do they're not
going to shop in that store. So any area of the store would you got square footage which is tied up in some of these
things where people are easily going to buy it online is inappropriate. So you have to they have to be a whole
concept reeks of restocking and individualizing what you what you're going to do so | think what you'll see is
specialized retail stores, as distinct from the General Department Store type right And with that in mind, anyone
who's go who's who's always retail or intends to lease to retail to pick a retailer, who is a, it’s got a niche in the
marketplace. It’s got a reputation. It’s got a name, or it’s got a, it’s got styles. And there's something which is unique
to that retailer, not generally available. So | think that's fine. So | got to the store like Nike, that, yeah, they sell
athletic shoes, they'll do well, because if somebody wanted to buy sneakers, they got 18 sneakers are different kinds
of the same thing with something like footlocker would be do well, they also | think the the electronic stores will do
very well. If somebody goes into buy a huge TV, they want to see Samsung, they want to see LG that wants to go,
they're not just going to buy it on online, and none of that can't be shipped. Right? You gotta be gotta be who's
going to set it up. So you need the retailer to make the differentiation and make it physically to make the sale. So it's
a question of specific items as distinct from concept. specific items, yes. will sell well online. Other items? No, you're
not going to be sold online. Or well, for example, you're not going to sell a car online that wants to go and look, the
key to callers wants to see the taken for a test drive. You can't do that online. So that's going to be there are certain
companies who claim they do it. But it's never going to take the place of the dealership. Same concept, the
dealership? Would it be appropriate for certain items certain did work for dealerships as distinct from just a display
of merchandise. Yeah,

06:57

it's John. John, we'll get to your question in a second. Yeah. Um, so

07:02

yeah. So and also understand what you say, as far as Shopify is concerned. He's a hole and he's not a wholesaler. He
is a display area for sharks. Correct. All right. So now now somebody wants to go on to buy shoes. At this, he
probably has 2020 25 shoe stores, which you go buy the merchandise. And he gets a commission or every time he
gets a lead. So if you're looking for a specific specific store, with merchandise that could probably go through
Shopify, he'll make some kind of deals and say, yeah, if he goes through Shopify, you get coupons, you get all this.
And he's just different from Amazon. Amazon is a combination wholesaler and retailer. Some merchandise they
stock, find other merchandise, they don't stock, but they sell, but they got somebody else to deliver it. And they have
an arrangement with the manufacturer or the or the warehouse to deliver that merchandise to whoever they say and
they get a piece of the action. It’s a different concept. It's not combining a whole bunch of stores. It's right now it's

selling merchandise from a whole bunch of different stores. It's also covering the shipping and everything else and a
Can | ask a counter question? So if if you're working in a on a team, where the leadership is very flat, and everybody

thinks everything is number one, how do you how do you become the leader, the leader leaders got

31:20

to be smarter than that?

JO

Shz2

JO

Yeah, someone's got to step up and step up and

31:25

JO

delegate, it's got to delegate. And this is not a democracy. Leader has says, Here's what | want. And pick the ones
that are most important dishes. Number one, this 234 depending upon how important it is in the overall operation of
the business.

31:41

_JO

And that's. So if you're sitting at a table with six, George's and it's all round one, George needs to stand up and say,
This is how we're gonna do it.

31:49

Absolutely. It's not a democracy. Gotcha.

JO

2153
No, that's very, very helpful. Thank you.

jo

31:55

jo

Yeah. But it's, it’s to get them to get your staff are tuned to following what the leadership says has to be done. So if
they're spending time on item number five, and they lose it, they're not what they're wasting, or they're not getting
around to item one, they got to be careful corrode. | got to be corralled runner. Alright, say, Hey, you're on the wrong
item. You have to watch them and periodic reports. So you have a meeting once a month, once a week. And so here,
how are we doing on item 1234? So that you see that you're on the right track? Right, and then if you're not on the
right track, what are you doing? You holler at him until you get on the right track? Perfect.

A 32:49

Thank you.
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

32-5]
Okay, over to you, Amy.

32:54

Thanks. Figure that out. | know | was in there twice. But, um, so George, we're negotiating to purchase 37 acres from
a wholesaler we already have the other we already have eight acres under contract. So. So eight of that. But the
other way to

33712

just back back off Rebecca for maybe guy acres, though, is you already agreed to buy eight acres

33:18

crown on the wholesaler, from the wholesaler from the wholesaler and

3321

you're going to pay a certain price and he satisfied with the price. And then you're going to do the pay the rest of it
to the seller. Correct? Correct. So they saw the the wholesale that doesn't pay to the seller directly? What it is easy to
mediary say here, I'll show you my rights under the contract for X dollars.

Soi0g

Correct? Yep. And so we're working with the next the other parcel that's, you know, basically along with this one, the

other 37 acres and the city wants us to do it all together as a as a group. So right now, |

33:56

do want you to do as a group,

33:59

what would you say? Yeah, we don't have to, but they would they would

34:02

understand okay, but that's fine. That's fine. If it can be fine. If not, so be
PC - December 2020 - Mastermind with George Ross

@ Wed, 10/279:40PM @ 59:44

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

seller, question, buy, sold, wholesaler, pay, deal, contract, merchandise, tenant, people, sale, business, lawyer, george, negotiate,

problem, landlord, money, deductible

00:08

JO

Yes. Great to have you here, George. Welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with George Ross.
And just cherish the time we get to spend together. It’s amazing how this year has been so different than every other
year. And it's given us so many different things to talk about. And tonight's no exception. We have some great

questions from everyone. But first, George, what are you feeling? What's your sentiment?

00:32

JO

| feel what's my sentiment sentiment is I'd like to get out of the house and do little things, but you have to do what
you have to do. But these zoom meetings have been a lifesaver, because you can accomplish a lot. And you don't
have to go traveling all over. That's true. And you can get it you can see facial expressions, body language, you can
get the direct questions good, it's great. It's a whole new the virtual thing is very good, and nothing is definitely a big
part of the future.

01:00

JO

Absolutely, absolutely. I've managed to have conversations with people that are normally like literally face to face
conversations like this with folks that are normally wouldn't, through the Zoom medium in ways that wouldn't have
happened in previous years. It's kind of forced it to happen. Well, one of the things that we're seeing happen, | listen
to a podcast earlier this week with a gentleman named Harley Finkelstein, he’s the chief operating officer for a
company called Shopify, they're actually based out of Ottawa, Canada here. And they're known as the platform for E
commerce, they have 1.6 million stores. And if they were the actual retailer themselves, they would be the number

two retailer in the world behind amazon. So they do a tremendous volume of business through their clients. In his
estimation, the online business has grown from 15% of the total retail sales to 25% in the span of only a few months,
which is the equivalent of accelerating a decade worth of retail growth onto the online platform into literally under a
year. And his perspective is that we are those companies that have lost that bricks and mortar retail business, they're
not going to get that market share back. So be interested to get your perspective, as we look at what you know, we
talked about the retail apocalypse. If retail opportunities come our way, whether they be to acquire retail properties
at a discount or potentially to lease retail properties to potential clients. How do we know we're getting a good deal
versus catching a falling knife?

02:42

Wall thatic a thatic a anand aiiactiann Riit hafare | aat ta antearina that aractian Im anina ta an hack a lat af the

JO
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

40:33

You're bound by you taking you're going to work through different ways, Amy, that's a forget negotiating with the
seller. Okay, that’s not your problem at the present time, it may be your problem, you may have to go back to it. But
that's if you book if you decide you're going to buy the contract, if you take an assignment of the contract. Okay, you
can say this is the contract, I'll take it as is. And I'll do something trying to do something with the seller to make it
more attractive. But what's your deal with the wholesaler? Because that you have direct control?

41:06

You're right. And so that deal is an arbitrary because his money would his earnest money would be hard in three in
the next three days, and so

41:17

make a decision know what happens in the next three days, if you don't show up? He's gonna have to same heart.

41:26

Yeah, it could | guess that's the worry is that it'll go to somebody else

41:30

bullshit. Plain and simple. Don’t worry about going to somebody else. They're in the same situation. Anybody? What's
you're asking for is totally logical. You're entitled to reasonable time to do the due diligence to do your environmental

to get title report or wherever you're entitled reasonable period of time, three days is not reasonable.

41:55

You're gonna do it. Well, | have those. Do | have some of that due diligence | have the time

42:01

does that boy, let him show you what you got. And you can make a decision. But three days, he is picking an
arbitrary timeframe. So if he says, I'd be happy to do three days, but | have to be able to do my due diligence in three
days. That's ridiculous. Take your time right now. Okay, I've got to do environmental. | got | got a check them. And
would you like to go see the title report? | have to see whether or not there's any problems with the government
relations. All of that takes time. Three days is totally unrealistic. It's an arbitrary timeframe, which you should not be
bound by. It's not fair. It's not appropriate. You say, Yeah, | can’t do it that | can do it in in two weeks, three weeks,
whatever it takes to do it. That doesn’t work. | will buy something useful. The thing is, | won't buy | should not, I’m not
going to buy something. It's not that right. I'm not going to pay the purchase price. If there's a defect in title or the or
whatever's in due diligence. And it’s not up to the wholesaler. To fix that that’s arbitrary. And if not, if they're going to
say, well, what are they going to do? If you don't? If you say he’s gonna put apart money, he’s got to do that. If you
JO

Jo

JO

JO

JO

18:26

Hi, Victor. Hi, George. Can you guys hear me okay?

18:29

Yeah, | can hear you fine.

18:31

Great. Yeah, I'm calling in unfortunately can't be on video. So first question. | think he got stigma question. It's, it’s
regarding a frivolous lawsuit. One of my LLC got hit with the lawsuit last week by a former tenant. They initiated it
one month before the two year statute of limitation in Texas. And the department building was sold shortly after the
suppose the slip and fall occurred. This is the first | heard about it. My property manager had no idea. There's no
emails about it. Insurance companies already involved and they've already got us an attorney that’s communicating
with the plaintiff's attorney. So it's | don't | don't have a specific question. It's just it's new territory, dealing with a
frivolous lawsuit. But just wondering if you're in my shoes, what advice would you give just the extra precaution that

should be taking as they go through the discovery and just you know, going forward? | think evidence is on our side.

19:34

This is what the insurance companies do for a living. Let them handle it. They get lawyers, they handle it, they do the
negotiations if they are and they figure out whether or not how much merit there is to the particular lawsuit. And if
they pay very often they will pay when there is no barrier to the lawsuit because it’s easier than going through legal
fees, lawyers, but that’s what you got insurance for. So if it happens, you turn it over and forget about it. Go about
your business. Don't get concerned with it, whether it's it's a meritorious case or not, it's got nothing to do with the
fact that they came in later to let the insurance company worry about because a lot of lawyers, and they do this for
a living, and they'll work it out without you being involved. The area that | want to show you, sometimes you have a
guaranteed deductible. Now, when you have a deductible, that means you're going to pay the first X number of
dollars, then you want to get involved. If the deductible is high, so if you have a high deductible, your insurance rate
goes down, but you you're on the hook for the for the deductible. So if somebody's showing you for $100,000, but
they got a lawsuit that’s worth maybe two or $3,000, there's something to be concerned about. Okay, insurance
company will say is good, you take care of the first 100,000 and call me when you need me more, I'll cover anything
over 102 It depends on the nature of the insurance that you have, it will be the bigger the deductibles, the blow the
cost of the insurance, but now you're taking a risk. And it also depends on who the insurance company is and how
good your lawyer is. If you're going to fight that case, but litigation is never the best remedy by any means try to
avoid it any way that you can.

21:25
Got it Okay, on that note, the deductible. It's small, it's 1000. But they're suing for 200k, who can

21:32

show for 2 million. You know, when they, when a lawyer puts when they put on a judgment and put on them, they

taka anv niimbher thav want Rit ticualh take a hia niimher there ecara the hall aut af vai That daecn't mann woati'ra
°
i

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

34:08

right. So right now we're, we're we're negotiating with the assignor not the seller, you know, the whole seller, the
purchaser purchase price, we're fine with the purchase price. The terms of the sell are being dictated by the structure
of the deal, though. What do you mean the structure the deal with the seller? Yeah. Like we unfortunately are taking

what he already negotiated.

34:32

Fine. No, that's fine. But when you say the terms are structured, what's what structured the purchase price is
structured? The time of the date of sale or the loot the limitations of the contract are based on the arrangement they

have with the original seller, but what else is covered?

34:48

Well, for example, the seller wants hard earnest money.

34:53

Well that but that's okay. That's that's he’s got that in the contract. Right already made his deal. He made his deal
with the wholesaler. Right? Yeah, he made his deal with the wholesaler. Now the question is you want to renegotiate
that contract get a better deal than the wholesaler has. Right? That's a nice idea at that point, but the seller has

every right to tell you to go fly a kite.

35:21

Okay, um, yeah, um, | guess that's, | guess that's if you had any other ideas on like, | started the negotiations, | know, |
would have been able to negotiate a better deal with the seller with the seller. Yeah. Which is better communication

and education and explaining why.

35:45

Understand, yep. What you're saying there's a problem there. The problem is, is as far as the seller is concerned,
when you come in there, as the party taking over the contract, the seller is upset because he sold it too cheap.
Because there had to be a profit on the part of the original, the original wholesaler, the soul is not selling it to you at
a loss. He's selling it to you at a profit. So somehow, in the minds of the seller's gonna say, Hey, | should be entitled to
some part of that profit that that’s mental. Yeah, no, say | sold it too cheap. That's that's the way it feeling. But
instead of living up to the contract, yeah. Negotiate with the seller, but you got to throw something in the pot.

36:31

Okay. So would you | guess part of the issue there is that we're forced to, we have a short
JO

JO

JO

JO

Or Ully LETIUTILS LIIUL US Il PIYUCESS VI SVICLIOT! UNI LITE LOMIUTILS LITUL STIOUIU STIOUW LITUL LIIey ve VES! UIICLLEU VY CY VIL
caveat to this program is that if the landlord accepts the grant, they cannot file an eviction on the tenant for another
880 days of receiving the money. So do you think the risk outweighs the reward?

25:13

Take the money. Okay, great. So | wouldn't worry about reach | say wouldn't worry about it in this atmosphere and
for a good while, you're going to have the courts and the judges are going to be very, very interested in protecting
the rights of the tenants. Not directly the landlords is once they're not going to want to throw anybody out to out of
business for so many years on a technicality, the technicality beings COVID, which is more than a technicality. So
what | was saying that, yeah, | would take the money, because he, you don't want to vacant you don't want to vacate
the vacant store anyway. So he says, | want to let me get some income, | get here six months, and | have a tenant.
Now you can make any arrangement you want with the tenant for the back rent, so that you're not going to get hold
held up in the long term of foreclosure or eviction. So you can attend and say here, I'm going to forgive you the
background, but you're going to agree to pay over a period of a year or whatever it is. And if you don't, I'll take a
confession of judgment. So | don't have to worry about going to the court and get any defenses at this. Here's the
arrangement, you can pay, if you're in good faith, you're going to pay, you have no problems. If you're not in good
faith, | get the space back, but even it may be a year down the pike, that's fine. You got to play low mean, if you if a
municipality can do it, and so forth, that's very intelligent on their part, and very, very helpful to every landlord.
Because you're not going to get courts which are going to be in favor of landlords. Because they always figured
landlords are not hurt as much as the tenants. Simple to lead, does that answer your question? It does.

27:09

Yeah, | was actually | don’t know why | thought the courts would be more more gearing towards the the property

rights, at least in this particular states. But he did bring up a good point that there is a risk factor of them leaning
more towards attendance and

27:23

probably not the course, you have the human element, which is very important human element. And you have now a
judge who has tested make a decision affecting the livelinood of someone who is in business, and they had a
downturn for something that was not their fault. It was the pandemic was not their fault, therefore, they didn't do
anything wrong. It's just that they got swept up in this in the craziness that went on as a result of COVID. And courts
going to judges personally are going to be very, very sympathetic if there's a way to do it. So it’s not like a tenant
saying screw you landlord are not paying rent, it's a different story. Because | say I'd be happy to pay your rent, if |
had income. But the stores are closed, I'm closed. They will let me open. | lost all my business people won't go up. It’s
it's a different situation. It's a typical, not typical that you have. It's going to be a while until this settles down in a
period of time in the future, depending upon what goes on in a particular area that we're talking about.

28:36

Gray Thank you, George.

28:39

NJ mw le eb ee NI et OA Hd LI

em me me ee ee LI OL ee ee tt I Od
JO

_JO

_JO

JO

Jo

Jo

_JO

JO

lot of advantages that you check. So a | don't see Shopify and Amazon in the same ballpark, although that not
forget the sales forget the gross that they handle. It's a different concept. The concept is Amazon. If you want to go
to Amazon, they'll take care of everything. You don't have it, but they'll get it they'll ship it. They cover all of the
aspects, getting it out shipping, it returns the whole bit. So they're a full service organization. | don't see that Shopify,
and I'm not familiar with Shopify. But that's that's a hard thing to match. Oh, absolutely. | guess. Look, you have any
idea at this size of the warehouses the Amazon has? Huge from which they always go to Jay Leno sells on a constant

basis?

09:14

Absolutely. They start at a million square feet each.

09:18

And where do they put it somewhere where it’s cheap. And where they get us incentive from a good from a
community to put the warehouse there because it's going to be jobs, and it’s going to be a merchandise and just got
to get some life to the community. So they get all kinds of incentives to put a warehouse when nobody else would

put a warehouse.

09:42

Absolutely, absolutely. So | guess that's all a given. So now in the world of traditional bricks and mortar retail, if
there's a 2000 square feet on Main Street, that can be purchased for a bargain or purchase Actually, you will release

10:00

a purchase or a bargain. What do you mean purchase your body? If it can be if it can be rented? It's a bargain.

10:07
Exactly. Can't

10:07

be ready to snowboard.

10:09

Exactly. That's exactly. That's exactly it. So how do we make that assessment is the question?

10:14

Well. the assessment is hard if the stores have been vacant for a lona period of time for the area is on a wav is as
JO

JO

JO

JO

Jo

JO

JO

JO

Yeah, he didn't. He didn't do that. He said

30:59

yes. Or Yes. And sign it. | can see from your face. He asked him to sign it.

51:04
We asked him to sign it.

51:06

Okay. Yep. Okay. So don't sign it. But initially, okay, no problem. This is under there's a difference through differences,
that by initially, there’s a certain affirmation that you've done something, it's not binding, but at least you saw it, and
he read it. So, if what happens if he doesn't have one initially, okay, we'll go to contract. It's not that critical. Okay.

Okay. If you have to just use letter of intent.

51:36

Okay. The seller is a wealthy guys, he’s worth billions. And he's deathly afraid of being sued. So he's put all kinds of
language in the agreement of purchase and sale, no reps and warranties. We're delivering all the rights and
privileges of the property with no warranties. You're not responsible for errors or omissions, including
misrepresentation. So we redlined it we sent it back said except for fraud or misrepresentation or fraud or

malfeasance, malfeasance, and they stuck it out. So they're not working

Zale

out. What are we talking about? Fraud, whatever is fraud. | don’t know what it is. But what did he represent or should
have represented? Nobody should represent that. He’s done that. You got a title report that takes care of title. Yeah.

So if there is a specialty warranty, bring it a rental income or something from it. That's, you

52:31

know, it’s vacant land. So there’s okay. Yeah. So there will be a special warranty deed. And as an attachment

agreement,

22:39

Marquis de fine. Has he done? Have you done environmental?

52:44

ThA#E ushAt hale eATIAA ie All AF FAA AliA AILAAKRA ie Alin FACKANCiNiLib WIANIA AA
°
O)

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

PHU WHILE TIS > SUYINTY 1S UI VI LIDS UUS UINYOCHICES Io VU FESVPYVLISININLy Woe ve Yyve,

52:48

okay, fine. So it's your responsibility. So there's nothing ever due diligence, that’s fine. That takes care of your
environmental. All right. Now, the only the only thing that says is that fraud he should not that should keep that's not
an exception. If he did a fraud, that's a different story. That's how we felt as well, that is based on fraud on the fraud
at that point, the fraud is this way, you can't say I, I'm not liable for fraud. Now, in the event where you can, what you
can do is this, if there is any that your remedy is to get your deposit back and go home. He's not liable for damages.
Okay. Okay. But being larger, that at least covers you that I'm not stuck with a bad deal. But he doesn't have to
worry about that you could assume for the fact that he made a fraudulent statement, which you found out. So you
put a deposit in escrow and you say fine, if for any reason that | don't like what it put | get my deposit back to you.

Maybe you misrepresented the material facts, whatever it may be.

53:58

Okay, but what about a clause that survives closing

54:02

that survives closing is what what's what's going to survive? What what did he agree to? | don't know survive. No, not
anything that comes out at this way. If you haven't figured it out before closing he's got a right to say forget to hold
there's nothing left. | don't want to be sued later on. He's right for that. Right. If you decide to take the deed and pay
to pay the money, that's it. You get all your environmental as you get to governmental authority, whatever it is, you

get to title insurance that protects you for that for that. So what else left?

54:41

Okay, so you're saying that we should simply accept that language the no reps and warranties language? Yeah,
yeah. Including misrepresentation

54:48

including news, Roberta, what's your remedy for misrepresentation get your deposit back,

54:52
right. Which and we do have that language in there? Fine.

54:56
So you're recovered it? Got a good lawyer. You did? We did the right thing.
JO

JO

Jo

Jo

JO

JO

JO

attorney, prepare the letter of intent or the seller himself, then you know what they want, they can't back from that.
You can change it. But they can’t back off from it. They can say, well, the purchase price has got to be higher, they
gave you the number, it's payable in 61. At the time of closing is, all of the basic conditions would be in the letter of
intent. Not with legal detail or anything, but just basic outlines of the deals. And if you you say you prepare it, to send

it to you, and you use that as the starting point.

49:01

Now, is there a reason to have the seller's attorney prepare the LOI versus preparing it on the buyer side?

49:06

Yes.

49:08

What's the reason?

49:09

Because the reason is this way, you know, you're we see obviously what the seller wants that you're saying He's
greedy, basically and unpredictable. Once he puts the LD, the letter of intent, he’s not predictable. Whereas on the
other hand, if you submit something you're bidding against yourself. So you let the other side do it. | mean, it's likely
you go to contractor sale, do you say do you figure out how much you're willing to pay or how much they want you to
go to him? Go to a seller and he ahead and say good, all I’m willing to pay is a million dollars. Do you want it or not?
Then he's talking maybe 3 million or 2 million or a million and a half. So it's much more much more advantageous to
have The seller's attorney give you a letter of intent. It's not binding. | don't want a binding letter of intent. And let
him say on the bottom of that you can put this letter of intent is not binding in any way, shape or form until there's a
formal contract approved by both lawyers and you need the parties involved and the deposits were put that at the
bottom, that's fine. It makes it feel good. But you don't want it to be binding. Okay,

50:30

okay. All right. Next one is one from a project that I'm working on. This is a 13 acre parcel. And we're in negotiation
on the actual farm agreement of purchase and sale. We had agreed on terms through an LOI just like you suggested.
The seller ultimately refused to sign the loi, he said it's not binding anyway. So let’s go straight to contract now. All

right. So let's

5Oi52
do that. But let them initially LOI.

50:57
