JO

though it improves the performance significantly, because it makes it mate come across

that we're desperate and have no idea. What are your thoughts?

40:48

Well, my thoughts are very simple at this point, | would, | would indicate to the investors
that they have the right to purchase or had you've made available the opportunity for you
to make any investment, you're reluctant to do. So. There’s an even though the there are
elements of the project, which are substantially more especially better than | had
originally contemplated at this selling, if I'm going to work out with other investors,
because they realize the full potential of the project, and easier in a year out without
getting into a detail. Who is this? what's what's involved? Or what's what's the well, you
have to have a certain faith in me. | will, if you're in, | will relate exactly what the best way
how the project is better than what you thought it was? If you're not if you don't have
confidence in me that you shouldn't be invested with me. It's hard to do this. Yes. You
know, it's it’s hard to, it's hard to turn some to say I'm turning somebody down when you
really need their money. That's tough. Yeah. But it did. Believe me, if once you get it does
work, but you have to have a firm deadline. | say, Okay, here's Here it is. If you don't find
the money by such and such a date, whatever the fixed date, they say, Okay, here, you It's
okay, it's now August 15, I'll give you one month. But if your money isn't in, or you're not on
the table by September 15, you no longer have the right to participate. Do it. See what
works, I'm not saying pick a month, but did my firm date. Yeah. And that firm day you live
with. So if they come in at that day, I'm sorry, you missed it, that they should have been
there. Even if you don't have somebody backing it up, they have to know that you that
you will, will live by what you you said. And it's tough, because you're looking is
counterproductive, you're looking to raise money. And this is telling people I'm not taking
yours. But it does work. It does work as far as long as you can do, you're gonna do it, you
can convince them, people will want something that they can't get or somebody else
wants. That's human nature, more restricted anything else. So if you look at any of them,
what he wanted was what he got got houses last two houses for sale as to how they could
have a dozen behind the two. But also the last two people forgot gotta have it. Because
it's limited item. If you make your investment eliminated items they will sell. | love it. | love
it. | love it, it's probably it’s something that's difficult to do. But believe me, it does work
depending upon how forceful you are. To me, you can say to these people look, on the
date, the date, you say, you have to have your money in or you have to be part of it by
what we said by September 15. Now somebody comes around to this button and says, did
not do it, but comes around to September 17th. And says I'm ready to do the deal. I'm
sorry, you too late. But you know, maybe I'll make an exception for you, because you're a
friend or whatever, whatever it is. But other than that you're too late. That's the key. Once

you take it off the table, they want what they can't have, or know what somebody else
JO

JO

they're not but if they could, or they would, they would do it. So that that's the the
precision with which they have to present it. Not that I'm going to I'm going to farm it, I'm
going to consolidate it or syndicated No, it’s like, I'Il hold it 100%. But I'm not really, it’s like
an insurance company that you know, takes take a loan, and then reinsurance. It's exactly
what we're doing what's right, right, is brilliantly splitting the cost. You're saying good. |
like | like it, but I'm not going to take 100% of the risk. | want somebody else to take the
risk because exactly what you're talking about here. Lending situation with Real Estate

projects. Very good. Okay, why

21:01

don't we go next to Vince, Vince, you're on the line.

21:05

Hey, Jordan. Hi, Vince. How are you? Good, sir. You? I'm fine. Great. Good. Alright, so
you've talked publicly about your experience of owning a portfolio of radio stations?
Correct. If | remember along the way you suffered a number of delays, perhaps even some
setbacks? Can you talk about the mental state, you needed to persevere in the face of
those setbacks? how you handle the stress, and if you were stopped the stress? Stress is
the wrong word. When | say stress, | never went into any project of any kind where | bet
the ranch on the success of the project, so that if it failed, | was out of business, or | lost my
money, or I'd be bankrupt. | never did that. So | there’s enough diversification. So yeah, it'd
be a hit, | wouldn't want to take the hit. But it’s not the end of the world. So what if you
have that outlook, then you really don't have a question of what happens in the event is a
setback. If there’s a setback, that means a fire, Hey, you know what I'm getting out of that.
And I'll take my loss, because the first loss is usually the best loss, but I'll go on, because it
was not the particular investment was not so critical to my financial capital letter, that
without it, I'm nothing. So it's the diversification and the fact that you watch what you're
doing and what each of your portfolios your items in your portfolio are doing. And then
you react to them, hey, give them a radio station is that point that we dropped? Because
the market didn't didn't want it anymore? All of a sudden, nobody's buying radio time?
Well, if you can't get spot, and you can't get advertisers, you by dropping, so big deal, |
mean, he's got five, there's an investment, which you lost as you go on to the next,
knowing when to get out is is critical to to knowing how well to invest, if it’s not going to
work, get out. But the key is, it’s not going to change my whole portfolio by virtue of
getting out of one particular transaction. So it’s not so as that | object to use that word
stress, because | never had it. Were there setbacks. Yes, there were but then when it was a

keeping an awareness of each of the individual pieces, where the radio stations or your in
JO

happy to go into phase two, even though it phase one took a little bit longer. But in order
to do it, you have to force them into that position. Nothing there is no better way of
getting money from syndication from people from syndicate syndicate people that are
involved in syndicate did telling him you can participate in my syndicate, or as exam you
want to put in 100,000, though, I'll only take 50. If you say that, at this point, they rush to
pay in the 100. No, | want the flow wants 50 | want the extra 150 Is there any better
example of this then made off with this, he would not take any any investments under a
million dollars, he wouldn't take you got to go | go into my deals, you got to it’s got to be
more than a million | don't even want to talk to you. And we'll have to figure out if it’s that
situation is that strong, that must be so good because everybody goes in. So you create
the the atmosphere of wanting to participate in the investment. That's a good example
are given creating the atmosphere, it’s not example, I'm just saying that they it’s it's what
happens with human nature, right? What happens to human nature, and it physically
happened with me, in one of the first indications which | did on a mortgage, | had
problems getting covered covering the basic mortgage because | had a number of
investors that said, Don't worry, at this point, you know what you're doing, I'll be part of it,
except when the time came to write write out a check. They got the nervous needed, they
wouldn't write out the check. And | had to figure out an alternate range range of doing it.
Then when the investment which was fun, which was turned out to fund very well at this,
then later on, when is your next investment and show the people that were in cash retreat
in the first place? what it was? And they say, Well, yeah, | want | want 100,000 and I'd say
you can have it. I'll give you 10,000 No, | want 100 No, | can’t now and then later on as part
of this, whatever was available, | had no problem funding, because | built out enthusiasm
for a product which became a product they could recognize. So | knew that this if you if
you take everything that they wanted, give no good just you're gonna hold back
something and it works. Did works. It’s hard to do because you think it's kind of
productive. If somebody comes out and says I'll fund the whole thing. That's your problem.
No, | can't | got other people that are involved and | promise the deal To add software
that can only give you half or what have you, or reluctantly, maybe I'll give you a little
more. But there’s nothing that succeeds better than not taking other people's money

talking too hard to understand it, but it’s the fact.

40:11

Well, it kind of almost segues nicely into into the next question, because you know, we
have a capital raise that we're trying to do that's up against a deadline. And, you know,
the fundraiser is getting strong expressions of interest, it's going slower than I'd like, and
certainly don't want to appear desperate, because that's never attractive. And we recently
actually made a decision that strengthens the project quite a bit. And we've been a little

unsure about presenting that change to investors in the middle of a capital raise, even
JO

JO

bottom line price to deliver that.

29:39

Understand. Yeah, | understand. And yeah, | get it. | get it. Now, all of a sudden is an item
that came up which was unforeseen for one reason or another, and what are you going to
say, hey, this was included in the contract. Now the guy said no, it wasn't was not part of
my deal. So you got to dispute between two parties and you got to figure out what you're
going to do some dispute. It is a question of better, Clara a better clarity of the the
original contract and it also covered the tanks. Somebody should have known or would
have, could have figured out that maybe the tanks were required and say, Well, what do
we do if there if reservoir tanks are required funds for? So if you include the tanks, so it's
better specifications of the stent, the scope of the of the deal, that would have been
required, but it's not there. Okay. So it’s not there. What are we doing now? | say, Okay,
here's the problem. It's part your problem. But my problem, maybe | should have been
more specific. But certainly you as a builder in this way, you decided to give me a working
subsystem, you should have known that the reservoir tanks are part of the working
system, right? So sit down somehow and solve it. If you can't, at that point, you're going to
end up with litigation, and the courts are going to decide who's responsible. And that's
costly, but that doesn't get it built. Well, it means you need somebody else to fill it in. And
then you end up with lawsuits saying all right here, here it is. My additional cost was
$100,000. And contract I'm going after you For Honor, or some part thereof, because it
was was your responsibility. You told me that to give me a finished working working
reservoir system and | didn't get it. But this is not this is not unusual. Building contracts is
always x is something was unforeseen. And not a Not always. But very often, you know,
there was something unforeseen | didn't realize it was a pipe in that location. | didn't
realize that | had water table that was out of there. | didn’t realize how to add a flood
property to something that came up that was basically unforeseen and they pulled the
price look at one, that's really your problem, my problem or what have you. It comes in

this messy situation, but it’s not unusual.

31:41

Okay. Very good. So next, this question comes from one of our subscribers who actually
had to drop off for call. So he asked me to ask the question on his behalf. Now he's
looking to develop as a successful entrepreneur, and he's single, and he's looking to find a
life partner. And his question is, are there any specific traits that he should be looking for
in finding someone who's an ideal life partner for an entrepreneur? What traits would be

sought out what ones to avoid?
JO

JO

_)O

32:11

Well, | try to be someone that seems the a good developer and entrepreneur is a super
salesman and has to exude confidence even though it may be overblown confidence. It’s
not backed up by actuality. But it’s just an order to do that you have to be an extrovert,
you have to be someone at like a PT Barnum that's willing to sell anything and get the
Lord would be ability to sell anything. And that's what you need, you need a super
salesman. Now, the party, you as you're talking about, basically, is just the opposite of
that, right. So now you need to do that he needs somebody who is the opposite is
somebody who is willing to go out and is a good good salesman or a marketer and to do
to get involved with, and then this, the this is, this is who you're going to learn from, and
you're going to have any shortcomings. If you're if you if you are an introvert and you
can't talk to people, and you can't, you're not confident in building a strong relationship,
get out of the business, work for somebody, you're never going to be that you're never
going to be an entrepreneur entrepreneurs have to be risk takers. And they have to
convince others to take risks. In order to do that. You got to be a showman. You got to see
you got to sell a product, you got to expand a PR is very important than this is what
you're talking about this particular person is not the not strong in the PR department. Now
one thing is there are books. There's a book on it was written a long time ago, How to Win
Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie Peale. Oh, yeah. Dale Carnegie or Norman
Vincent Peale. Whatever it was, yeah. And yeah, that's good. So read up on that. But
that's a long ways that's that’s theory to get do it. In actuality, to get somebody to do it is
like, you know, changing his entire personality to do something that they're not geared to
do. They are not whoever it is a lot of people are made to be followers is are have the
traits of being a follower, but not a leader. And an entrepreneur basically has to be a

leader of sorts,

34:14

right. And it’s not strictly the introvert extrovert thing, because | mean, if you think about,
you know, Warren Buffett, he’s certainly an introvert, but he certainly can certainly put
himself out there and can be a leader and can be gregarious, even if he spends most of his

time on his own.

34:27

Absolutely. Right. Absolutely. You could do it. He could turn it on when it has to be turned
on, but also has a track record of investments, which were so in the areas of investments

are the first little convincing people that he was an entrepreneur that you are invest with
JO

JO

for that. But it’s very rural land. So that's a different that’s a different animal, then
deciding to buy that land. And I'm going to build and this is what it is. So the question of,
what do you want to do short term as against something that you're planning on doing
long term? So if the short term, it probably could make a lot of sense in the long term in a

down market? No, that’s hazardous doesn't mean it doesn't work. It's just hazardous.

09:27

Right, right. | love that perspective. Thank you, George. You're welcome. Okay, this next

question is from Dave. Davey on the line.

09:34

Hello, now. Yes. Okay. George, thanks for joining us. My pleasure. So George, over the last
two or three months, | found out we have a portfolio of apartment buildings in Memphis,
Tennessee, and | found out my partner has cancer, and he's also our manager. And |
noticed some slipping and performance and you know, we've got apartments in several
days. phases of, you know, stabilization. And so I'm concerned about the, you know, kind
of the flipping and performance and wanting to see how you would go by most of these
properties are see plus or minus and they're, you know, he’s he's good at he was really
good at managing and, you know, keeping everything smooth sailing, how do | go about
stepping in and kind of just making sure that things are running smoothly but still be and
be conscious of his health? Yeah. No, but this is not this is not a situation which by any
means is isolated. It happens in many organizations, a key employee has a problem. And
they, they you, what do you do? Basically, that team, you have to backstop that key
employee, and you backstop this, when somebody's doing what you're talking about, he’s
got cancer can't handle it. If you if you basically speak to him on a very sympathetic basis
of look, you got, you got problems, I'm going to take part of your workload off. And what
I'm going to do, I'm going to put a nice bright young soldier, boy, good boy or girl in there
at that point is going to, you have to teach her, him or her what you do, and they can help
you out. Because | don't want you working as hard as you're working your physical stem is
not there. And | want | want I'm very concerned about you, or your very trusted employee.
And | want to make life easier for you, as well as protecting the investment is this done in
a compassionate manner it works with the main thing is the time is not in your favor. It'll
only get worse, okay? But the compassion man and get somebody got out is expensive.
You also tell your employer tell you, it’s not going to cost you anything, we'll take it out of
the business, it's not going to change anything. So let's go and do is make your life easier
because you've got physical problems, which I'm which I'm very concerned with. And |

want to see you | don't want to see you work as hard and don't have a problem. So let me
JO

JO

14:41

So next, George, we're discussing conventional construction financing with several smaller
banks on a pretty decent sized project is going to be about a $30 million loan facility. And
we're starting to get feedback from some of these banks, that they're not going to fund
the full loan amount themselves, which means it's about their lending limit and they're
willing To act as the lead bank, and they will manage a consortium of banks to find the
full loan amount. Great. What are your thoughts on that approach? Or should we just be

working together? Fantastic.

15:08

Okay, | think it's great. | think it’s great if you have a relationship or any, anyone has a
relationship with a smaller bank, smaller did maybe in either an asset or loan, or they,
they just don't have an appetite for a huge loan, for one reason or another, that and but
you use that as the front runner to go out and put a consortium together where they will
basically, you know, they'll have the league, the accounting, and the dwolla book will load
the book work. But they're and there'll be the lead bike, but not the not the major bank.
And they can bring in other banks, there are lending banks, which are looking for loans,
absolutely. Or pots of loans. And using small bank, smaller bank would you have a good
working relationship with as your spearhead is great, and it works very, very well. And
understand that there are because of what happened in the not too distant past, we all
remember where there were a lot of mortgages, which are underwater, and banks were
making loans that they should not have made, because they felt that they could sell them
or get rid of them as a result. Well, they all passed under scrutiny, because you had a
tremendous amount of loans, which were bad loans and banks got hurt. And they not only
hurt, but they certainly got tarred and feathered because the the, the lending supervisors
or the government at that point, started looking at him said, What are you doing, and got
very much concerned and came down from the regulatory basis, they came down on
them and reasonably restricted what they were doing. So it changed the whole
atmosphere of making loans. And that is, to a certain extent now has diminished or gone
because the business environment has gotten a lot better. And is basically you don't have
a situation where you're going to make a loan solely for the purpose of selling it, but
you're going to make it not for the purpose of keeping it. And the idea of what the what
the what the banks are looking for is something was up, but they're now coming into the
market, banks have a pot full of money, and then no place to put it. And as a result,
they're looking for investments, they're looking for loans. And even if they can handle the
whole thing, if they soearheaded a major loan, they could build a cadre of banks, or
lenders, which would be interested, if this bank that’s spearheading the loan, is has done

their homework, and can come up with good numbers and say, Hey, this makes sense. But
JO

JO

JO

JO

they can sit with that doesn't mean you go to construct right away. So if he's saying
Seattle, and somebody was buying some, some fake some land, and a cheap price was
some type of a US baby parking lot or something in the interim, and they're planning on
building, whether it was coming out with something starting in three years or five years to

come onto the market. You know, that's that could be very intelligent.

07:23

If you were sitting on cash today, and you were looking to invest. And | know that you're
not, but if you were, would you be looking actively for deals in today's market? Or we just

be sitting on cash flow? Okay.

07:34

Sure. Absolutely. | would always be looking for deals indicated in the marketplace,
provided you can carry the cost of the land in the interim period. So you're basically your
land banking for a better market time. But all things being considered, we're taking into
account that the economy certainly United States seems to be growing and more demand
than it would with people having more money and more interest. Now, if you take that
and you say alright, let's let's extrapolate that go for go out for a couple of years, two or
three years. And you see that that the trend continued, you know that you made a smart
decision in this uptrend doesn't continue it gets worse than just say, Okay, well, I've
meanwhile I've land bank for a period of time, what is the cost of vacant land? Currently
vacant land is cheap, is cheaper in reference to what you have when you build it, you have
no customers, right? Once you go into the ground, and you start to build, you got the
mortgage, it’s a whole different ballgame than just carrying a piece of land with with

minimal income, and only taxes to pay.

08:36

So you'd obviously want the land to be equity funded in that scenario.

08:39

Yeah. Yeah. Be equity funded, or you can have some loans, but it’s minimal loans. Yeah.
Minimal carrying costs. Yeah, middle, okay. And courses, they take a piece of land. So you
buy a piece of land for $500,000. And you end up with a mortgage of maybe $300,000.

So the length of the the the value to the to land prices is reasonable. Thanks, we'll still go
JO

you know, they're saying, if you look at demographics, we're about 300,000 unit shorter
demand over the next couple of years. So as as real estate investors, you know, prices are
incredibly high today. How do you make sense of this conflicting picture? And how do we

make sense

01:25

out of that sense, the conflicting picture | have to do it issue is you can't talk real estate in
generalities, it doesn't work. In other words, you can't take the United States as an entire
group and say, housing is down. That doesn’t work that way that the because the model is
fluid, in some places is down in some places, it's up real estate, and the demand is
something that is specific to the area that it's in, you have to any any investor basically
would have to look at, say, investment where and what what type of investment in what
type of location. For example, if you're saying that housing abroad in Brooklyn, Brooklyn is
not down, you may have the you may have to give a one or two months concession in
order to get the tenants But meanwhile, there are still tenants to be had, there's not an
over glut of apartments in the New York area, certainly in the outer boroughs. However,
having said that, Seattle is a different animal completely. Right. The ABA | agree with you
basically is is is an area, which is where construction, outpaced demand, and it's going to
be a long time catching up. So if somebody is thinking of building now, at this, well, you
have your building, and you're gonna it’s going to come out in three years, maybe the
market will have absorbed at that time. But if it's not, if it's a shorter period of time, you
still have a problem because Seattle basically is overbuilt, even though it's a thriving
community, which is going up. But it overbilled very similar to Miami, right? Miami,
tremendously in a certain period where they had one time they had 30,000 vacant units,
30,000 vacant units, and it was whoever was in building if they couldn't, couldn't hold it for
a long period of time, they do lost a lot of money. Eventually, the market straightened
down and now the apartments or the units are being swallowed up. But it's not the type of
investment that you would say let's go into now. So you have to look at a specific specific
city, what's going on specific areas of specific city and a specific type of real estate that
you're planning on doing? Are we talking about one family houses? Are we talking about
for multi houses, short ones? Are we talking about high rises? We're talking about the
areas? What is the demographics of the area, the the average income of the employees in
here, all of this has to be taken into account. And before you go to make a what?
investment but you can draw generalities, it doesn't work. You can't say that there were
short 400,000 units. You made me short 400,000 units over the United States. But that
does well, where How is it taken into account? Where are the 400,000 units? You can't
take the number of people that need housing and say, okay, fill it up, because it depends
on where they are and what they what they can afford. So you got to stay away from

generalities for market generalities and you get somebody says the average like they say
JO

JO

JO

your portfolio, and then making an evaluation based on what you know, in that in that
market radio was was not the same? No, because cities are not the same. The same thing
that you're talking about what | build in a particular city, you have to know what's going
on in the city isn't the same thing with radio, or with any any production facility, it's the
same thing you have to know what's going on on the market and the particular market
and decide what should you do? Should | sell Should | revise when | make a decision

accordingly? Well, George, |

Zo)

think at the core, Vince is asking a very good question in the sense that yes, you didn't
take financial risk, but as the business operator, no, | won't take financial risk. Well, okay.

But as

24:00

| didn't take a financial risk, but it was not, it's not such a risk that it was it was

catastrophic if it didn’t work, right. But maybe the bigger risk was the reputational risk
where reputational risk, you know, it just it was saying the reputational risk Yes, it's one
thing to say this, that that's why they got bankruptcy laws. And you take what happened
before didn't Ford file for bankruptcy? Of course, major companies have done that. But
they go to reorganize and make make something better when it when the turns out that
they can't survive in the existing format. So you say okay, | wouldn't like it. It's a it’s a black
mark, but not as much as somebody may may figure out because they think this is bad
because of the fact that that's why they have chapter elevens. You don't look at that as
being the downside has to happen has to happen. But there are many organizations
which Lockheed and other ones were tremendously at this point as a result of
reorganization? Does that answer our question? Yes, sir. Thank you, George. Okay. Thank
you. | think | think the thing to be learned Vince, or you're doing here is to keep a
awareness of each of the items in your portfolio, what you anticipated it would do and
when what it is actually doing and to support stocks spotting trends, in the evidence, he
say, already started to go down. And but it has, how long has it been going on? If you're
doing it on a yearly basis, you could be killed? If you do it on a monthly basis, and you see
certain things you can make certain decisions, how do | solve it, maybe | could personnel,
though, you can make a decision, you have to find out how bad the illness is, before you

figure out the solution.

25:41
JO

JO

JO

| think the part that I'm finding intriguing in this conversation is that you said that you
didn’t experience stress. And my definition of stress is that when there's a gap between

expectation and reality, it’s in that gap that stress exists

2.00

for Hey, this is business. Yeah, this is typical business, there's always going to be stress,
stress, or some kind of problems, everything's going to go the way you had in mind. Of
course, it's not going to be that far. And few and far between, when some projects that
you're involved with goes and performs exactly the way you have in mind, that's rare.
There's always something maybe have a governmental thing that came up all of a sudden
that you hadn't anticipated, you have protests, you have some kind of a fire or a flood or
something that was unforeseen. And all these things happen, this happens as a business. |
say, Okay, I'm aware, this is the nature of business, you don't like it, you don't like the heat
get out of the kitchen. It's simple as that. Right. But that's the nature of business and
certainly the nature of real estate. But having said that, on the long range. At that point,
we know one thing for sure, real estate is going to appreciate in value, because the cost of
construction, and of course, the very thing else is going to go up and inflation. And real
estate traditionally has kept up or exceeded the rate of inflation. So it’s long range, it's
going to be alright, short range, you can you can pull your hair out, but it’s still still there.
Very good.

27:07

Okay, like, next to George, we have a situation, we have a project where the contractor is
building a municipal grade water supply. And they've completed the drilling of to 500 foot
deep wells. And he came to us at the beginning of the week and informed us that the
reservoir tanks that were assumed to be part of his bid, were in fact not included. And he
never ordered them, even though it was a fixed price contract to complete the whole
project. And the tanks cost more than the value of the contract so far, are we wasting our

time holding the contractor accountable on this mistake?

27:39

Probably probably. But my question is, who was what was your people involved? The
construction contract? Who supervise that? | think the contracting manager should have

known that
Ollee

PC+-+August+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross+
a Wed, 9/8 12:06PM @ 49:24

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

loan, people, question, project, bank, investment, market, problem, investors, george, part,

real estate, business, deal, organization, lenders, unforeseen, phase, decision, seattle

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:04

JO

So welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross.
George worked for Mr. Trump for many years as executive vice president in the Trump
Organization is the author of two best selling books on real estate and negotiation, taught
at the law school at NYU for over 20 years in business over 60 years, married more than
most people have been alive. So welcome. Welcome to the call, George. Good. Thanks.

It's my pleasure being here. So George, the first question, you know, we're seeing an awful
lot of warning signs, and a lot of conflicting market information. One of the examples is
Seattle, where they've got, you know, over 30,000 new vacant apartments and another
30,000 in the permit pipeline. And last year, they only absorbed about 7000 units and
vacancy rates are running 25%. In the downtown core, we're seeing similar things in
Brooklyn, not to the same extent, you know, about another 13,000 new units have hit the
market, a lot of leasing incentives. And then at the other end of the spectrum, we've got,
you know, folks like Fannie Mae and Hud saying there's a shortage of housing in particular

for starter homes, and were to 60 or low in terms of new home construction. And they're,
JO

JO

him. That was great that personally doesn’t have to be pushing himself except the
organization. So organizational ability is certainly very important. And for that you don't
have to be an introvert or an extrovert. You have to be someone who understands figures
and understands personal relationships and others. Stand where people do things and
how to sell certain things. So it's a knowledge of human nature, which is not necessarily

reflected by your personality.

35:08

Okay, very good. So next we have, this is another one that | think is going to be of broad
interest, because there's a lot of folks on the phone here, who get who are syndicators,

who get involved in syndicating for other projects. And I've been approached by a couple
of developers to help raise funds for a new phase of an existing project, the construction
of the first phase is gone. Well, it's taken a whole lot longer than planned. And as a result,
their existing investor base is reluctant to jump in from phase two until the first phase fully
achieves all of its goals. And I'd like to help them | guess the question is, am | how much
should | be aligning with the phase one investors and taking a bit of a wait and see
approach? Or, you know, am | taking reputational risk by jumping in now, I'm thinking a
couple more months of Operational history would reduce that risk. What are your

thoughts on on that situation

36:04

on the risk, this is what you're what you're hitting are referring to is a situation which
comes up very often in syndications, not very often, and just did the syndication didn't
perform the way the sponsor said it was going to perform or thought it was going to
perform right. Now, as a result, the investors say, well, you told me it was going to do this,
it hasn't done this, it hasn't pursued it. And then the way to solve it, and it is insoluble, is
you have to take away from the original investors the opportunity to proceed in the
project going forward. Alright, so now even if you build a straw man, | say, look, you have
the right to go and you don't want to go into phase two, stay out of phase two, I've got
other people, this Zeus and now you got a certain certain period of time, | will give you a
period two weeks to make up your mind to uni or out on the going phase two, if you're out,
you're out. There is nothing that works better with investors than taking away the
opportunity to invest. As soon as they know, someone else is standing there ready to
make the investment, they're ready to put their money up. But if you don't do that, then
you just sit then they just sit back and say let’s wait. And they you can wait forever.
Because the market can change business environment can change. And they're they're

just not in the investors investing mood again, if phase one went well, they should be
JO

JO

take the frustrating task of running the running the projects, let me take that away from
you or get somebody to help you. It'll be very well received if you do it compassionately.
And as | say, Look, I'm looking, you can't handle the job, I've got to get ready. That's sort
of that’s not going to help it's going to work. But if you do it in a compassionate manner, it
works. And you're late already, you should have known this as soon as it happened. And
you should have started making but you're making backup. But that’s not unusual. I'm not
being critical. This IE a typical, yeah, because | usually work until it gets to wait until it gets
too bad. And then it becomes a very serious problem. and managing the units is a serious
situation. Depending on the unit sewer and net, this method is a good city. So it's
something that you can get competent people to to backstop the situation, but you got to
do it quickly. And then you may have to serve the American backstop, the person is doing
the backstops, they may have to build a whole staff which we've got two or three people
doing what basically he did one. So | realize that you know that you may need more help
the more eyes that you have on the Morkel and you can get somebody that has
experience to teach underlings. what it is that’s going to make his life easier at that that's
great. Plus the fact that you're building an organization, any organization which has a key
employee that they demand on at this and they don't backstop the key employees and
organization which is doomed for serious failure. Something happens to the king to the

king man. Yep. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. That makes sense. Well do

13:34

it. It's a great question, Dave. And you know, | think for everyone on the phone, this is
something that even if you're not facing this issue yourselves right now, you definitely
want to be paying attention to because at some point, whether it’s a slip and fall and

illness, someone goes on vacation, what have you, this issue will rear its ugly head.

Ia:ol

Yeah, the organization | think that was that if you want to do a parallel or parallel or you
want an example, the Trump Organization was a great example, the Trump Organization
ran out ran fine without Donald on the in the trenches, he would make executive decisions
and pass it on to associates who he had faith in and let them run with the ball and he
bowed out is never it never got involved beyond the initial stage. As a result, it can handle
an unlimited number of properties because it does require his time and attention. And this
is a you know, this is a sign of a good executive is the ability to delegate to people that he
trusts and to watch the people that see that they perform, the way they're gonna perform.
micromanaging is is suicidal for any major organization. Yeah, thank you for that. That
was good. Okay, what's next?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

27:49

| think the contract was pretty clear

27:51

that the contract was pretty clear. The construction manager should know all the parts
involved. Yeah, certainly the read the tanks that they're involved, they're a part of it. Yep.
And that should be should be something discussed there will or should have been known
as an oversight on one whoever drafted the contract, you put in all the things that should
be performance, the constitute the performance, and somebody left out the question or
the tax, okay? Now, this is this. So the the builder, this realization, Bob says hey, to the
contractor is your problem and the contractors did your problem, | never, we were never
part of the original proposal. So you only got as a dispute between the two of them, which
is gonna be litigation, it's not going to work, it's not going to solve the problem, not going
to solve the problem, tell you the best thing to do if you want to keep the project because
that point is to say, Hey, you got part of the responsible, | got partners. So how do we
solve this problem? You say It's my mistake, | say is your mistake. And what do we do now?
And try to work out some type of a solution, other than just dropping the project,
assuming that's the it, does the cost become prohibitive? That may be what you have to
do?

28:55

No, it’s not gonna it's not gonna break the project,

2G a7

then at that point, then then like, there’s not gonna break the project, then you got us alll
do something with the contract, and maybe he's going to do it a cost on the solution. So
he makes no profit and the putting in the tanks or you take some type of a hit a certainly
as responsibility for us. I'm sure he there is no question. But it's not total responsibility.
You're not going to go with total response, said you should | it’s not in the proposal. why it

should have been in proposal but it's not okay. What do we do now? That's the key.

29:28

Right? And | mean, the way it was written, the engineer specified everything, including all

the bill of materials and the contractor. The subcontractor responded basically with a
Die)

JO

it's just beyond our limit, well, we don't do it because there are limits. But that doesn't
mean it's not a good low, it's a great way to go, it’s a lot easier to deal with a bank, that
you've got a working relationship on a small, smaller basis than to try to go into a giant
bank, and all of a sudden try to get a loan, they don’t know you that then it’s hard to
establish a relationship, once you are known, or you have been involved with lenders, they
then they will do you. And that is your source. There's nothing to say at a later point in
time, after you have a small bank making a loan as a sponsor of a loan and running the
all of the paperwork that's involved, and they have his people more banks investing with
him as part of the loan, there's nothing to stop you ultimately, then when this has to go
directly to that big, big loan, and say, Hey, you know, here's jersey, we This was you, you
took a piece of a loan, now, | got to evade your loan that my loan small bank can handle
about you. And you can that’s a wonderful stepping stone wonderful, quote, if they know
what you're doing, or they have a good relationship, you know, you got your foot in the
door where you couldn't do it by yourself. So you certainly use them as a as a messenger,
or Goodwill Ambassador to get you from a small loan to a large loan, great way to do
business, very good, worked wonders. And it is certainly apropos at this point in time,
because you got a lot of smaller banks, which are out there, which are afraid to make a
big loan and being criticized, if that loan should have could go sour. So if they may take a
part of it, then they farmed the rest of it out. They don’t have to worry about it going sour
only they're part of it. So to tirely different philosophy, but it’s great to do develop that

type of relationship with smaller lending institutions.

19:24

Okay, well, that’s very good. | mean, our our principal concern in going that route was that
it would take the whole process would take longer because there's simply more decision
makers involved. But if they accept the lead banks underwriting without redoing the

underwriting themselves, | guess that's really outside,

19:41

right. And the main thing is, is when you go for that loan, you have to give the
underwriting bank all of the information that would be necessary, assuming they were
writing 100% right. So now if they and they should be as concerned about that, so that
they do their due diligence As if they were writing 100%. Now, if the bank does their due
diligence, then all they do basically when they bring in a participant is say, here's all the
information. And the information could be the same as the lead a major bank would do, if
they had the loan directly, and they will accept it. So they have to have to leave the bank

that you're doing business has to look at it as if they were making 100% of the loan, but
JO

JO

the the average mean price of a real estate one family house is $600,000. What do you
mean? We mean house where, in what location? And what what Where did you get the
info is what's the size of the sample in which somebody made this decision. So | I'm not a
firm believer in a lot of statistics which come out from various agencies. And | don't
basically hold a lot of stock to it, because | think is generally fluid. However, having said
that, there are specific advantages and when making intelligent decisions in markets
where the market is would warrant that type of construction. And | think you're | think
you're right in pointing out in Seattle that this is not the time now for the type of
construction. So you stay away from Seattle, but You know, that's not the only city in the
United States that the basically we're building still makes good ideas, you'd have to, you
know, take take into account where you want to build what you want to build, but don't
have a general look like I'd say the market is bad. What What do you mean, the market is
bad, there is no such thing as the market. A specific commodity, or housing or
development in a specific area in a specific city, and maybe on specific blocks could be a

problem. But that's said deal for specific which | said they're not general. Yeah.

05:34

Absolutely. Now, in that type of an environment, in your experience, | know you've seen a
few market cycles here. Have you seen lenders put their foot on the brakes, even though

there may be isolated pockets that are overbuilt? And

05:48

of course, because they fall to the same trap to the average investor looks at see what
was it was the community saying what's the market saying, as is when you see all kinds of
statistics, the market is down, there are 30,000 vacant units and what have you, shortly
the lenders are aware of that too. But they they don't look at it in detail, because they're
not builders, or they're not going into a particular area, but they would say our downtown
is bad. So | would say okay, it's a fine Seattle is bad for certain housing units. And the
lenders are aware of it, that’s true, you may have a greater problem in raising money in
the type of market with with the general consensus is that the market is over built and or
the economy is bad WorldCom, all of those things enter into it and influences the lenders
in their, their decisions. So that's but you know, that's the nature of the real estate market.
That's, that's the business. If someone goes into a down market, and they have the money
to stay with the properties, they're buying a cheap, but they don't spend two, to bring it
out for a period of years, they're going to land bank and for previous Yes, there could we
can work out good because the market will probably change what it'll change. Nobody

knows. But it’s a downtime everybody's looking to sell and somebody's looking to buy and
JO

JO

JO

JO

they'll recognize them for their ability and say, Yeah, | want to deal with them. But this
happens in very often. | mean, it's certainly a counterpart is where, you know, in the law
firm, you got a major client, the major client that you the major quiet at this, all of a
sudden says, | want to deal with Willie with the associates that | have at this rather than
the senior partner. And the now the associate goes out on their own becomes House
Counsel for that major client, because they like the dealing with that associate better
than dealing with a senior partner that they don't have the same feeling for soldier is very
similar in any organization, where a particular client or a group of clients now haven't find
an Allegiant to a junior person that they feel comfortable with. And they say, Good, why
don't you make the turn now and work for me exclusively, or we'll set up a new company,
and you will be the head or you'll be a major part of it. So it does develop | will, my
suggestion would be to join an organization, and then work your way up, learn from it and
build your own reputation, by personally being involved with people to show them, yes,

you're good, you know what you're doing, and you can serve as their needs.

47:26

| think that’s very good advice. And she's got tremendous skills, she’s got a background in
accounting, which a lot of organizations are very weak on a lot of structure and systems

and a systematic approach that and then you

47:38

put it in, that’s what you put on the table. Yeah, that says, you may not do this is just going
to do but | can also help you out with your counting, | can do the numbers for you to show
whether the project is going to be what is going to what's going to be involved. And |
could do a lot of the paperwork that you might be reloads to do, you don't have the
people, but | could do it for you. And it shows. It's like a person who shows you not only
one one ability, but can be because it can handle many different tasks, or well, and then

they become strong because of the tasks they can handle.

48:08

Right. And it isn't even necessarily the case that she needs to do the work herself. She just

need some ensure that it gets done.

48:14
That's correct. That's correct. But it has to be sure sure to keep to keep it the cheese the
moving forward moving force. This has to be one is this. Yeah, as soon as the people know
that, they go back to her. So all the information that comes back does not go directly

around her but goes through her to whoever she wants to communicate with with the

client.

O ;

A 48:35
That's great. Yep. Okay, fantastic. Well, we're pretty much at the top of the hour here. And
thank you again, George. We look forward to speaking again next month.

O .

A 48:46

Great. Okay, good. | think a lot of a lot of good questions come out which are which are
fine and let him keep keep the questions coming. Keep the problems going. At that point,
we'll be happy to talk about how | think you could they could be solved or worked on or
eliminated one way or another. That's what I'm here for. Terrific. Thank you so much,
George. Okay, take care. Alright, bye for now.

© Robert 49:07

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

JO

wants. It's a fact of the human nature and the successful people thrive on it.

44:00

Okay, well, we'll definitely, definitely put this in the

44:03

dry. Yeah. But it's only once it runs counter to your general thinking because you say |
don't want to, | don't want to keep people out of the project at this point | want them in. So
how do | get him in? You get him in by keeping him out or go telling me we keep him out?

that's what that's what that’s why you create that enthusiasm. What's next?

44:21

Okay, next. This comes from Alina in New York. And so she's working to develop her skills
as a syndicator. And she's completed several projects, helping others raise funds for their
projects so far, and she's got very good relationships, but she hasn't been the principal in
the projects up to now. And her question is how she says How should | position myself to
bring the maximum value to the new projects to the investors and ultimately for her own
success without you know, without being a sideline? should she be looking to find a single

strong partner join an existing team or build a new team around herself?

44:59

Well The last part is the hardest part, building a new team around herself because she
doesn't have the experience to build a team around herself. So that's the hardest one,
being part of a team, and building up her position and her performance as a member of
the team to get the recognition that, that that works. And you certainly can do it. And if
you push the indicates what she's given the performance, which he has, and what
additions she's made to the, to the total performance of the team that will get recognized.
So now, it's, it's | mean, I've seen it over and over again, where you have, like one
particular broker, and a real estate company is the maxima is the best salesperson, and
eventually, that's got to be recognized, because if it's not recognized, then the person has
the ability to go out on their own. And that's what he can do it a period of time after she
has developed a certain reputation as being part of a larger organization or another
company, in which Jesus smaller part, she can survive and do better by by adding value to

that company. And people will recognize her or recognize, hey, you know, whoever it is,
