Robert 52:35

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
jo

JO

Because, uh, yeah, we're gonna call it we're gonna call you Newport, we're gonna do it,
you're going to lose the property and everything. But generally speaking, they're not
going to do it. Because it's a technical default. It's not a true default, you made the
payments, but the value of the property now it’s supposed to be as far as loan to ratio. It's
supposed to be maybe 80% loan. And now because the property has gone down in value,
it's 110% loan, and therefore they want to pick up the difference. But that's, that's
theoretical. They didn't lose any money, but they have a technical default. And I'm saying
fine if we have a technical default, solving if you can, but if you can't, | wouldn't be
concerned about the taking the design good. | made all the payments at that point I'm
hanging in there. | can't, | can't pick this up at that point. Now, if you want to call a loan,
that's your privilege, but meanwhile, make the payments. Why don't we restructure it and

overlook this technical default?

40:28

Yeah. So they'll they'll push and see what they can get out of you. But that doesn't mean

you have to fall over and take it. | mean, what I've,

40:34

what I've always heard is, as long as you're making your payments, that's a performing
note is, you know, if they start screwing around and asking for things that they like, you hit
it and you know, understand. Yep, yep. Understand that, what happens, all right. And this
is important to know that if they call the loan, they must show it on their books as a non
conforming loan, right, which means it shows on their books, it goes up ultimately with it,
whether we have to go back and someone's the builder, whoever's looking over at the
regulate regulatory, this is now a black mark on their assets. Because it's a non

conforming loan. It's like it, depending upon what it is now, rather than having a non
conforming loan, you're making all the payments. So it's not horrible. It is all yours. It’s a
technical default, but they would be reluctant to call the loan and have to show it as a as
a non performing loan. No, no, certainly, if you said to them, Look, fellas, at this, I'll
continue on, let's continue the mortgage in its present form. At this, maybe you don't want
to extend the loan. Let's continue it, I'll continue to make the payments. And we'll figure
out what happens in the future. But if you don't, and you call the loan, I'm not making the
payments. Right? Now you're going to have now you have a true default the loan on it,
which you which you have to show up as a non performing loan while it’s in the midst of
foreclosure, which generally they don't want to do because it makes them look bad. And
it's just a technical default, will they pressure you sure, they'll tell you all kinds of they may

send you all kinds of letters all kinds of notice, if you don't we are going to foreclose, they'll
JO

JO

who built it is this was his pride and joy. So he had he had it and the property would was
never available for sale, although it would have brought a very attractive price when it
went up for sale. Now, when the the owner died, and a family put it up. And now that we
were in order to tie up the property without going into an auction, bidding auction, what
we offered them was we would name the build the name of his houses. So be always his
father's their father's name would be on this project forever. And anybody one pasty
would see his name. No, that was an extra added incentive. And they did say we're going
to honor your father. Meanwhile, the price is going to be what it is. But this is one of the
things we would give where somebody else at that point would would not necessarily give
you the naming rights. So you throw something in, that would be attractive to them. | love
that. That's a great example. And that's for them to why they should deal with you rather
than somebody else. Yeah, that's wonderful. And this goes into those Anything, why they
should deal with you? Yeah, your money is better at that point, you'll put the, the PR that
goes out will show how what how smart they were when you're giving them an intangible,
though is it's not money, but it's something that did it would would add to their stature.
And when you say exaggerate, you're gonna tell how good it is how much they're going to
make, and you push it up. If you give them a layout of exactly what you're planning on
doing, you can prop it up, | anticipate making 10 million. That's anticipation realistically,
you know, you're looking to make five. But do you anticipate 10. So you know, you can do
that you don't have to have, it doesn't have to be iron clad, because it’s just anticipation.
So you tell me you convinced the other side is gonna be better than what you thought? I'll
give you share the profits of your share with the upside. And here's what it is | plan. Right
now, according to my projections in my business plan, you're going to end up getting an
extra 100,000 or an extra million dollars, whatever it is. Yeah, they like that. If you preview

if you put it in your plan. That's all speculation. But it looks good when you put it in writing.

21:07

That makes sense? Yep. Okay, very good. Thank you, George. Okay. Your next next
question is from Sep separ. You on the line?

ZirS

Hey, Victor, and George can hear me okay. Yeah, | can hear you. Fine. Go ahead. Thanks
for taking my question. It's kind of long. So I'll do my best to summarize it. George, we're
selling a package of multifamily properties to a 1031 buyer. And we're currently scheduled
to close by the end of the month, guys. And we need this closing to happen because we
have a couple of new acquisitions lined up afterwards. And the buyers lender just informed

us last week that one of our buildings as part of the package, a 16, a building encroaches
JO

JO

JO

| guess, you know, without having gone through a down market cycle without having had
a loan called, you know, some there’s some scare tactics out there from some people who
say, you know, the language in the loan, says the bank can call it at any point, you know,

I'm, have you ever seen that happen when let's put into somebody is making the

payment?

ails

Not one that No, I've never seen, it has not really happened when somebody is making
the payment, unless they're less clear summary. Understand this, that lenders, they're not
really they don't want to run property, right? All they want to do is get month get paid.
Right? That's what it is. So they're not, they're not gonna foreclose willy nilly, just for the
purpose of even though they might have the right to do it, because they didn't maintain
the ratio of income, or whatever you're not going to do we're not going to call in. On the
other hand, at this understand, calling alone does not mean that you're out of it. Starting
Point, takes a long time to foreclose, and you have all kinds of defenses against their
foreclosing bank didn't do this the bank Didn't they misled me, they didn’t make their life
miserable. Usually a foreclosure | don't know what state they're in. But in New York takes
like two years, or two years where you're not making the payments, okay? And they want
to get the payments, they don't want a loan is in trouble. So they will generally work with
you if you take a firm stand. So it's definitely so if they say good, what we're gonna do
foreclose and just say, Scott, do what you want, I'm doing the best | can. But I'm not going
to add this as willy nilly, I'm not worried over that, you're going to end up stealing the park

property from me. And

38:44

so George, one of the George, one of the scenarios that post 2008 happened very
frequently, is something called a maturity default, where you know, the the owner of, let's
say, a commercial building made every single payment. But then on renewal of the note,
let's say you'd have a five year term, the bank came back and said, Well, we want to
praise that the original value. So now you need to inject 200 grand of new equity to get

the ratios back in line. Those types of defaults were very common.

39:14

| know there was no comment at that point. But | | quite even though it's there. The there's
a basic reluctance on the part of the bank to call the loan in the event that did did you

don't meet these ratios or what have you, they go and then make all kinds of threats.
_)O

Okay, we'll do. | love that. That's great advice, George. Okay. Good luck with it. Thank
you. Okay, what else we got? Okay. The next question is from Matthew and Patrick. And
they're actually in the car right now on their way to New York. So they said that, they
asked me to ask the question on their behalf. So they don't have all the road noise here.
Okay, so. So Patrick and Matthew need to raise about 8 million for a project. And they
want to limit obviously, the number of Investment Partners in the project. So they will have
to approach fairly high net worth individuals. And it's really a three it's a four part
question. The first is what's the best way to approach these people? What, what
information would they be looking for? How would they present it? And in particular, how
would they structure the conversation so that the funding source doesn't have too much

leverage and exert too much control?

29:39

Oh, okay, | think I've got two four parts. Alright. Let's take before we get to the four parts
are, the first thing that they would do a need and is good is a really good business plan
that you're going to present to your potential investors indicating What the business plan
is, what your what's going to be built in how it's going to how how long it’s going to take,
what you get, how much money they're going to put in what return they get on their
money? Do they get a fixed return plus an O plus an override? Or in fact, do they just get?
Are they Equity Partners, in which case they share in the equity. And they get whatever
the upside is, even though they're just primarily money partners, they're not contributing
anything other than money, which is a contribution, but they're not indicating in the
building, or they're not doing construction work or anything along those lines, they're just
there with the money. So they're titled to get paid. And in the, in the business plan, you
indicate how they're going to get paid, when when they're going to get paid. So you say,
Fine, you're not going to get paid until we see we see some cash. But once we, once we
see cash and the blue, we've built a building, we financed the project, and now we have
cash coming, you get you get a priority of something. So you're talking about developer
fees, or potentially any? Correct, correct, right, so what do you say, five? So we're gonna
see that if you are invested, you're entitled to a reasonable return on your money, what
the reasonable return would be depends on the risk that they have. So if they get paid, if
they get paid first, out of the first share of the profits, or as soon as there's any cash that
comes out of it, well, okay, then there, if that's what they get, then they're not going to get
the same rate of the same uptick as the the owner, the builder of the property who's
taking the risk, there’s no there was there not the sponsor is entitled to more than the
financial than the investors who put in money somehow. So it’s an uptick with the builders
fee. It could be what happens in the event of the sale, you get to, after they get their 5%
8%, whatever you want to indicate that they're getting as return on their capital, then

what happens? How do we share anything above that, and the sponsor is entitled to get
JO

JO

the money, money and get some some advantage? Now, the fact that he does that he’s
entitled to it, because they made the project happen. The others at that point, it's a
financial risk of a financial project that they have, and you're entitled to get protection,
but they have very little to say, should have very little to say about the development of
the project, they can be involved, what happened was in the event of a sale, or what
happens in a vendor financing, so that their interest is protected, so they can speak to
them, then on those elements will have the development, but they don't control it.
Otherwise, they don't you don't let the people who are putting up the money control,
because they are not cognizant of what's involved in the project, they are not furnishing
money, which is entirely different than being helpful in making the project work. So there's
they limit their expertise to limited dollars, you're entitled to a reasonable return on their
money. And some indication as to when it comes out. Also, they can get a share of the
uptick is what happens. So say, if the building job makes X dollars at that point, you get
what is the return you get on your money. And then above that, we split it over, | get my
share, and then we then you come in, then so we have tears, you get the first you get a
fixed fixed return on your money, when there's cash to pay it, not out of the property.

When is cash to pay? Yes, we do the roof, we do the financing, and you get x down, and
anything above that we split or or some way. And ultimately you got additional benefits if

the project is a huge success, but you don't get hurt terribly if it's just a reasonable.

33:41

Now some investors take the perspective that the project wouldn't occur without them

and therefore they

33:49

grow. That's true. But that doesn't mean a project wouldn't. But all they're doing is giving
you money. In other words, Yes, fine, you're going to do it too. But unless you want to give
him control of the project, that’s that's one thing, but getting control of the project to
understand their only function as money is making you're making it work. That's it other
than that, they they're not getting any expertise unless they have expertise to give. In
other words, if they're involved in management of the project, because they have
managing expertise. That's that’s something sure that's, that's, that's where it's worth
money. But the average investor doesn't have that. So it depends on who you're asking
who you're getting the money from, or the money that people that are in the building
business, or are they just industry, if the people in the building business, then they're going
to give you some expertise, yes, that’s worth something. On the other hand, they can have

a certain certain control over what the project does to the extent that they have the
JO

you know that they're going to be responsible now. So assuming that was the main This is
past history, you can always say what you should have done. Let's let's concentrate on
what actually happened. | would not pay when you paid 200,000 at this who it should
have been paid as against pay pay to this office. Make the correct That's right. | agree. |
agree with that. Mr. A Grave error was made. No, not with the error. But nevertheless, this
now what you've got you guys got this situation you got a a GC who's got no money. Who
is still doing services. Okay, correct. That's where you are okay. Now. | would basically if
you're satisfied with him that he’s an honorable guy. At this age, ultimately he would get a
fee if the job when the job is complete. | don't know what it is. | wouldn't pay him a fee
along the way because if because of the arrangement because of what happened with his
partner, but nevertheless, going forward. | would basically say okay, we will continue | go
continue on. We will pay the bills that are due Do you have to, we want to know that you
got waivers of liens from the subs and against the bills and edit certification from the
architect that this work has been completed. So if you're paying for paying somebody for
steel, and you're paying on 50 50% of the steel, you are no, okay that that 50% of this
deal is there. And the architect will certify or the whatever whatever it is, is done that way
to the percentage of completion. So it's basically having a supervising architect that
works with the GC and the GC asks really money for the subs basically pays the subs, but
you give the give the checks directly to the subs in exchange for a waiver of lien. So that's
going forward? Yes, thank you. The only other part of the solution is you don't trust the GC,
and you get another GC to do to do the work with which case you got a problem with 100
grant. And he's dealing with a thief and you that was unknown to him or not known to
you. And it's just one of these things, you know, that's when you deal with we got a thief
it's a thief is a thief. And you have to basically go ahead and continue on getting to be the
building permit. | don't think the building permit. Basically, it may be issued to the GC, but
it goes really early for the site. So | don't think that would be a problem. And | think also |
think the GC, from what you're telling what I'm hearing from you, is that this guy, whoever
this guy is honorable he see for a partner, correct? Right? Okay. So | would say Good,
good. Give them the benefit of the doubt, let him finish it. And he would get a he will get a
fee, a construction fee, based on the job, whatever. But not only what he’s only when the
job is complete, whatever he gets done in what you build, you're paying a certain

percentage of the total cost of construction.

11:45

Sure. So there's anything left after the after the $100,000 stats, you're given the balance?
Maybe yes. Okay.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

How are you going to how are you going to get it back on there unless they have some
type of insurance, which | doubt which is you know, for the members of the partnership
and members of the partnership where they have some type of insurance where there is a
you know there's a there's a thievery that's involved, | doubt it but to check on it they do it
doesn't sound to me like they would but | did | did check And they don't, you're correct.
Okay. So that's, that's Yeah, scratch that. That's good. And other than that, you know, just
saying take the best out of a bad situation. And hopefully it and that the job if the job is

good, do you live in the cost to get eaten up? How much was because the job was big job?

13719

Well, it was. The entire job was only 1,000,001. So it was 9% of the job. Well, in that case,

15:26

you can't. It's not that much profit. Yeah. But then. Okay. It happens. It does. It happens.

You learn this is this is how you learn?

15:36

Correct? Yep. Great advice. Thanks, George. Good luck. Appreciate it. You okay, he
welcome. Okay. Okay, what else we got?

15:45

So, George, in your book comes down negotiation you wrote about in a chapter where you
wrote about convincing the other side that they're getting more than they ever expected?
And no, certainly Donald seems to sometimes stretch the positive. And he clearly believes
that that's that way.

16:03

Like, what do you mean, something? | used to sometimes just, yeah, okay. He always

stretches to the positives. Always exaggerate. Okay. Yeah, go ahead.

16:15
JO

JO

JO

good, because | think it's at a high level. So these are not these are not low level jobs.
Correct? Correct. To all things, | think is good, but you know, to be seen, there'll be a lot of
pluses and a lot of the negatives is there already have been a few positive, but it's just
some it's something that will work as well. | think it's good for the good for the city and

good for the year. Good for the state. Definitely.

06:42

Fantastic. Well, why don't we go to questions from the attendees? Why don't we start with
Mark rasili? You're on the line? | think you can press star six to unmute, or | can unmute you

here, Marquis, they're okay. They're

06:57

okay. | am here. I'm now unmuted. How are you, Victor? Good. Okay. Okay, what's our
question, Mark? Thanks, George. So we have a multifamily apartment building is currently
under construction, the general contractor completed foundations part of the masonary
manufacturing of the steel. And we recently paid this gc $100,000 draw one of the two
partners, the GC firm, emptied out the company's bank account and disappear. The other
partner is unable to pay the subcontractors, but he does remain committed to helping the
project to completion. He’s been on site the last couple of weeks overseeing the work, but
it's clear that the GC partner is in deep financial distress, our confidence in their ability to
complete the project is low. So there are two parts to this. If we replace the GC, we need
to get the GC to assign the building permit to another GC, and they may object. Secondly,
recovery, the last 100,000 is important. We do not have lien waivers from the subs, and
we'll probably have to pay for the work twice, but out of pocket. What would you do in

this situation? George?

08:07

Well, probably first. The first thing is looking at it and say what | would do with this
situation is | would never have gotten into this situation. Well, every employee. In other
words, | don't know that this is what quite Who gave you the advice or legal advice. But
when it when a GC at this point, | would not pay a GC until he unless he pays his subs or
gets waivers of lien. | wouldn't do it now. Did the GC give you a firm contract saying he'll
build it for X number of dollars? Or is yes, we have a we have a fixed price contract, you
have a fixed price contract. But why don't you get through to like that, | would have
gotten that bonded, | would have gotten the GC bonded that he's going to deliver those

points wanting? Yes, absolutely. Paying the insurance fee. But for the bonding, but at least
JO

JO

JO

not ironclad, then you don't have the problem, | wouldn't be concerned about it.

50:34

If you have a situation, for example, that might result in a 1% cost overrun on the project,
and

50:41

stuff, hey, hey, are you in real estate? Or were you in the dream world? in a dream world, a
real estate project has hazards, right? It has hazards, it has downs, it has ups, are you
going to tell them what to do when, when three times better than I've done, it was mine,
that they're going to be very happy. If it goes a little goes down to his Lord. That's the
nature of the business. There’s no such thing as guarantees. In real estate, there’s always
something that may or may come up and changes, as long as you're related. You gave the
information to your investors in an appropriate fashion at an appropriate point in time.
And that doesn't mean every week. They say, Well, good, we're going to be quarterly
reports or annual semiannual reports of exactly what's going on. And and when you send
them these reports, if it’s a negative report, you indicate why we're negative what
happened, he give me an honest count as to what happened here, the market went down,
| thought | could | thought | could get $5,000 per square foot and | only got $4,000 per
square foot. Therefore my numbers have changed. That's fine. As long as that's what you
told them. But you don't have to tell them every time that every time there's a hiccup in a
building job at that point. Forget it. That happens on a constant basis. And that's the
nature of the business. Nobody. Everybody anticipates that. There's a possibility that is
not going to go the way you had in mind. And that depending on the climate and the at
the particular time in the marketplace. That makes sense. So just a periodical reports. Tell

them what's going on, but doesn’t have to be too much detail. Okay.

52:12

Well, we have. We have a couple of questions we didn't get to tonight. So we'll Okay. We'll
get to that. We'll carry them forward to next month. So thank you so much, George. Okay.
Good. Have a happy Thank giving and I'll soeak to you next month. Terrific. Thanks.
Happy Thanksgiving, everyone. Thanks. Thanks, George. Okay, welcome. Thanks, George
and Victor, can | buy?
JO

JO

have pluses and minuses, the people in the neighborhood are going to say it’s terrible,
because it's going to upset you're gonna have traffic problems, you're going to overload
the subways and your stores can't handle it. This is all you know, not in my backyard tide
NIMBY, they call it in their head doesn't make a difference what it what it is, you're going
to put up a school or college or anything like that, they're going to be a number of nodes
are going to resist it, that's got to happen. However, looking at it from the big picture, it’s
going to bring in a lot of jobs to the to the city, and then to the state, they go their taxes
which are going to be paid on the income that they have. And these people are going to
add to the what to the money that’s taken in by the City of New York and the local stores.
So anytime that you have if you have to give inducements. And the only way that you're
going to get one of these companies to go in, you're a you're gonna have to give them a
newsman. So you give them benefits, you may give them cash allowances are tax
benefits, that they don't have to pay taxes for a period of time. And you have to do it.
That's the only way you're going to get them in the states that have had companies come
and set up factories or businesses in the area, have given them some kind of a financial
incentive. It has to be, and it’s appropriately something that should be done. | mean, |
know when | set up a factory in Albuquerque, outside Albuquerque, and | went to the State
of New Mexico and told him, I'm looking to set up a factory. And | said, | need land. They
said how much how much land do you need? | said 20 acres, you will get your 20 acres at
$1 at $1 an acre if you bring in 100 people. So you know, that's the part of it that they
wanted. They wanted it that they you know, to get jobs in that particular area. It wasn't an
Albuquerque was one of the outskirts they are but this is what has to be in the smart stage
was smart cities are ones that are going to make all kinds of inducements to get as many
as 1000s of workers that are going to be in their particular area. And it's a definitely a
push for the city of New York. So, you know, it’s it's one of these things that | think is very
good, but you're going to have a lot of negative negative feedback from the people in the

area that don't see the benefit of having a monster facility such as this in their backyard.

03:11

You know, one of the criticisms has been that, you know, divide $3 billion of inducements
by 25,000 employees, it comes to, you know, almost 150,000 or $120,000 per employee
that the city or the state of New York is giving to Amazon, it seems like an excessive

amount of money.

03:29

Yeah, but understand why we got this. What are the inducement? This is this is a money

that they would never get. In other words, it wasn't this question that Amazon was going
JO

JO

JO

onto the neighboring property next door. What do you mean? What's in the building is on

the building is over the hill over the lot line? Correct.

21:52

So your idea or it’s not? It's just not an alleyway? It's actually the physical building.
Correct? Yeah, they

21:59

it from what my broker said it appeared that when they originally when the city drew the
property boundaries, that original surveyor messed up. So the owner of the neighboring
property is also the former owner of our six unit building. And they they originally offered
us the chance to buy both apartment building and a house next door, but we just opted to
buy the six giant we did seller financing. Our titling company prepared an encroachment
agreement. And the neighbor is basically trying to extort us for $20,000 a sign that they
got wind of the sale in the basement trying to take advantage. So we do have title
insurance. But the mistake | made when | first bought this is | did not order land surveys.
And title insurance company does have provision that that protects a survey. Right. Okay.
Right. So, my broker research the county records. And, again, it seems that the property
boundaries is in the air with it. I've already spoken with two attorneys, they reviewed the
purchase contract the promissory note we have with that neighbor insurance policy. And
they said that our only options are unless we can prove that the neighbor knew about this
title issue beforehand, when they sold us the the 16 a building that we would basically
have to pay them in 20k, or work with the city to redraw the boundaries. So for what it's
worth, that the neighbor is also local, wealthy investor and all the buildings that they own,
they own under their name instead of an LLC. And they have given us the option to buy

the house next door, but they want a $50,000 market premium.

23:34

So if | could ask what would you do if you were in my shoes? Well, it does one thing at this
point. When you bought it from the from the president seller at that point. Did he take
back some paper? He did? He did. Okay, yes, | would stop paying the paper. No, here's
what you got, you got to do it. The problem is if you can work it out to timewise fine. So
this is all things being equal. If you can hold off your prospective purchaser or delay the
prospective purchaser, then | would go after the seller as that this is in effect he knew or

should have known of this encroach with when he sold you the property.
JO

JO

JO

JO

24:14

Okay, one thing | should mention, we did do a cash out refinance and we paid that off,
does that make a difference? What do you mean so so we refinanced the paper about
two years ago and but and the lender that we had at that time was was aware of the
encroachment they were okay with it but buyers lender is not okay with it. So
unfortunately don't have the power to stop making the payments because they're not
getting payments anyway right now.

24:39

No, okay, but it couldn't but meanwhile you got it. You got a legitimate lawsuit. Oh, you
got a legitimate loss against the owner. This is something he had the property and he
should have known this encroachment. You can also also there's there are a number of
other areas. There is such a thing as an easement by prescription. All right, where you
have to have that because of this situation. Because of the nature that it affects the the
property now, since the building is an effect on this on, not on loveline, but over the lot
line, then is this legal basis for saying you got to give it to me? You sold it to me | got an IT,
even though it was over the line, | am entitled to an easement for that property, which you
now own. And therefore use on the encroachment agreement. At this point, you need to
give me the encroachment agreement, or in fact, you're going to face a lawsuit, because

you've damaged my property. This is something you should have known. Now. Also, how

25:31

long did he own the property? The less than a year, they bought it for 30,000. And they
sold to us for 190. So they've done pretty well from that. That's good. Okay.

25:41

| mean, | certainly lawsuit is is threatening, the lawsuit was disappointing, but putting it
back on the seller, and saying is this go Hey, you should or not, this is something you, you
sold it to me and there's such a thing as as implied evidence of good title. And when he
gave you the deed at this particular point, where the deed was awarded the deeds, they
may be for a folk warranty deed, | don't know what the deed is. But if it’s a warranty deed
at this point, he warrants good title. This guy, he didn't have good title. So all is what I'm
saying is you've got enough ammunition to go against the prior seller to knock down the
$10,000 price. Okay. That's, yeah, that's the golden advice right there. So knock it down.

Rather, hey, look, solid, we want to solve the problem. Is it better to go over there? They
Ollee

PC+-+November+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross+

ae Wed, 9/8 1:22PM @ 52:52
SUMMARY KEYWORDS

project, gc, point, money, building, question, loan, property, area, problem, pay, george, situation,

investors, business, line, anticipate, payments, buy, default

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:05

JO

Well, good evening, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with Mr. George Ross.
George, of course, worked in the Trump Organization for a good chunk of his career in
business for over 60 years, taught at the law school at NYU for over 20 years, author of
two best selling books. We're just super fortunate to have George here with us each and
every month to answer our questions. Welcome. Good to be here. Well, George, we'll start
out with something that’s been in the news in your area. Of course, the big announcement
in New York, is the Amazon announcement, Long Island City, part of Queens. What's your
perspective on the announcements and the impact that it’s going to have both on the

city? The residents positive or negative? What are your thoughts?

00:46

JO

Well, that’s, that's good. | believe. Anytime that you do something like this, you've got to
JO

JO

JO

JO

expertise. But if they're only giving you giving you money, and they have nothing there
and you're just looking return return, then nikiti they shouldn't be in control because they
don't have the expertise. So you can build it and put it into the business plan, what you're
planning on doing and in what what area. As the investors will have some say as to what
goes forward. So if Pacific type of a mortgage for so many years is just standing or
whatever it is put that in the business, makeup and the business plan has to be very, very
good. It doesn't have to be as accurate. It's it based on a lot of assumptions. All right, a
new law that you've set forth. And this is the assumption, this is what we anticipate. That's
fine. Let's go it doesn’t have to happen in because it's, it's, you know, it's just it's a plan. So
you think it's going to happen, I'm not saying you make it unrealistic, but you dress it up so
that it’s a win win. So if you make it a win win, and you dress it up, if we cut, if it comes to
be less than that, it's still something which an investor would be, would be happy, you
know, we'll be happy to to get. So it didn't give me the Fed return | had. But nevertheless,

he gave me a good reason, or it's a good investment.

35:54

Okay, very good. All right. Next is Michael Michael nantais. Are you on the line? press star
six to unmute. Okay,

36:03

go ahead. Yes, | am. Okay, | hear you. Okay. Good evening, gentlemen. Let me pull my
question up here. Hi, George, we have we have a question come in from an investor in our
group, about how to avoid having your loan call during a down market cycle. So
obviously, you can keep making your payment, but any other experience or advice that
you have maybe how to structure the loan to begin with? Or? And then, you know, general

comments on how to survive ad down down market cycle would be helpful as well.

36:36

Well, okay. The question is, first of all, you can't, when you when you want to stop a loan
from being called that this, | assume now that the what hap for one reason or another you
have enough money to pay the mortgage or to pay the loan? Am | right? Well, the
question,

36:53
JO

JO

JO

11:51

Yes, that would do that. At that point. | would, | would also, you know, it's important, let
the guy work on the job, do the job. And then just what you got to give him whether you
take 100,000 office fee, or whether you take less than 100,000 because it's a he’s got a
situation that's beyond Buddha was beyond his control. And you want to give something
along the way to make the job complete? | would you know, it there's there's merit to it. It’s
it's one of these things, but they asked him to take 100,000 hit because he had a Cropper
a partner. That's tough. But it is yet that’s your problem. | mean, that's your situation. |
think that the main thing is is to get get him to do the work to do the job. And ultimately,
you're going to give him give him his fee, or in part four or something, some some way of
recouping for the fact that he’s going forward and in a difficult situation. You need his
cooperation, | do karate, but in the future, in the future at that point, well, you got us got
he got a fixed price contract, which is is there then get get bonded in one way or another?
Now | don't like fixed price contracts. | was already wouldn't, but | would prefer a cost plus,
okay. Okay. The reason for that is, is a fixed price contract is what happens if you abused
and overrun pizza, eat it correct. Now, on the other hand, if it happens to be an overrun,
he's going to figure out how to save money so that he doesn't have the overruns, he may
end up with less construction, less, less, more shoddy construction, where he wants to
recapture the the fact that he’s got these overruns. So as a general rule, | would suggest
at this point, not just that you have a cost plus, so you have an opportunity for heat or he
basically gives you a visual he comes up with the sob. He says here, here there
subcontracts. That's what they ask you to approve the subs. So now you know exactly how
much he's paying for the steel because of the fact that they got it in the subs. And making
that on on the on all of the all of the trades comes up with sankat with contracts with
good good subs, so that he doesn't have to eat the subs, but they're going to be good
subs, and you're going to pay these subs as the work is done. That's a better way to do it.
That's a good experience for the future. It's not much we can do under this situation,
because it's already there. But you know, this learning experience for expensive learning

experience, but that's what it is.

14:16

Do you have any advice on recouping the $100,000? | was stolen any any insight on

14:23

| got to do it, if you find the if you can locate, locate the thief that the answer is Yeah, sure.

But how do you do that? If the guy took the guy emptied out the funds and disappeared?
JO

JO

JO

didn't know at this point. But 10,000 is ridiculous. This is the easements that doesn't cost
you anything. That doesn't affect you, if you sign the encroachment agreement, all you
got to do is leave this leave that we do have the right for that building to be there, which
we should have which reviewed you really gave to us when you sold it to us that you knew
we had the right to have that building there. So | think you can argue with him at this
point, | think | think you'd be successful and sounds like they would work. But also, you
know, he wants to sell you that. You have a building which you don't want. But he wants
an uptick. That's ridiculous. | mean, not ridiculous. It's a hold up for something that he
created. | would throw it back on the existing on the seller who sold it to you. He sold you
something that was defective. Now if write about it, that's then then there's no problem.
That's that's he can't get out of it. But even if he didn't know about a fruit have known
about it.

27:16

Right? That that's a very interesting perspective. It doesn't matter even if all the
documents that we've signed purchase, contract promissory note, warranty deed is all
those have provisions in there that that hold the seller, harmless. Not harmless at this

point. You can say hold the seller harmless, but he’s never harmless for fraud.

27:35

Yeah, so does he know it is this? Well, you can sign all kinds of things. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
sellers, but, but if he did something wrong, and knew he did something wrong, or has, it's
going to appear that he did something wrong, he's liable to get to the surgery, whatever is
in a lawsuit, you win, or probably win, but it’s too expensive. It pays almost to give them
the 10 grand. So | would | would go after him, certainly to indicate what your posture is
that he's created, he’s created this problem. And in addition to that, this defect has
caused you a problem, you're going to lose your purchaser to sue for damages. That's
right. So it's important to the extent if you do if he doesn't solve the problem and you lose
your purchaser, you're going to hold them liable for the loss of the deal. Okay, that may
certainly, you know, scare a lot but enough so these got to do it. He's only it doesn’t hurt
him for him to give you the the easements, the encroachment agreement. So at least it’s
basically holding me up. So the question is, okay, a little bit, but not much. Excellent. |
really appreciate it. It's great advice. Okay. Good luck. | think you've come on. Well, thank
you. But throw it on the other side. You're not the bad guy. Here he is.

28:44
JO

JO

JO

So, | guess the question is, if you're, it's, | guess, really a question about expectation
setting, partly, because if they're getting more than they expected, you know, you've got
on the one hand, a posture that says, to really accentuate the positive? And then how do
you actually deliver more than more than expected in that kind of an environment? Or do

you set the expectations low? And then over deliver? What what are your thoughts on?

16:40

No, not the expectations low, and again, we're dealing here is one of the basic problems is
very, what you got here is a fuzzy, very fuzzy arrangement. And it really depends on the
particular transaction. But you would give the whatever's on the other side, and what they
what they anticipate to get from the transaction. And you say, Okay, this will give it give
you there may give them more money, if it turns out to be a great, great, a wonderful work
well, you don't, it's a big, there's a big windfall. Yeah, I'll give you some more money on it.
On the other hand, at that point, you may give, give them some publicity that’s involved,
that they're involved that this is their project, which adds stature to their, their, their
stature in the community, so that they're involved, this is their project or, or that
effectively, somehow, you're going to put them on the front on the get some some front
headlines that they're what's involved in this project. So it's not necessarily money that's
involved, you're not giving necessarily more money, but you're going to tell them what
how it's going to in your to their benefit, it’s not going to make your reputation it's going
to be and how the publicity is going to be handled. So that whatever, you can throw
something on the table, it doesn't necessarily have to be money, there could be money, if
this project turns out good. But then you're saying good here, this, this is what you're
getting. But now you got to take a little less, but when they went, if it works, well, I'll give
you more. So you're gonna when we say you're going to get less, and they're going, but
you've got to share the upside, which will get you more than anticipated, but you

shouldn't share 100% on the project, which is yet to be completed.

18:23

Would you have an example of something that where you where you found a more than

expected situation that you were involved in a specific negotiation?

18:34

Yeah, yeah, | had a situation where we're buying a business that had nothing to do with
Trump. But you had a situation where there was a, a family that had a apartment house in

a very wonderful area in Brooklyn. And it was built by the family they held the father who
JO

JO

to give them free for free a billion dollars, is it that they're going to get $3 billion in
inducements. So means they'll have no tax payments for a period of 10 years, or what
have you. Which, but in order to get it, but it’s not money coming out of their city's pocket.
Initially, they're not paying, right. But as far as, as far as Amazon is concerned, yes, they
can save money in taxes. And they can get all kinds of inducements. It's the equivalent for
them, of getting the millions of dollars, but it's not coming out of the city's coffers initially
coming out of it. If the if the program goes through, they would get together benefits
would say, this is what happened. This is how you get companies to be in your area, you
got to do something creative. Do you see any negatives from your perspective, the
negatives, the negative, just the effective is going to happen? The area the transportation
system is you know, you've got a pretty overloaded they got all kinds of subways there,
how the people where they're going to live, | don't know, you know, you're talking about
housing, a lot of people the housing is pretty tight in Queens and certainly in the New York
area. So that's as far as the negative is concerned. | don't as far as the people working
there. The you know how much money they're going to make. You're going to pay a lot of
it in just income your income Brett pulling guy, right. So it’s it's, | would question whether or
not they How many How good is going to be what they're gonna have to pay? What
Amazon's gonna have to pay in order to get their employees because the standard of
living in Queens or New York is very high, the cost of living is high. So that's certainly
something to be considered. But obviously, Amazon has taken this into consideration,
usually when these big companies do this, and definitely they do an awful lot of
spadework as to what the demographics are and what they can expect. And, and but as
far as the labor force, and they are pretty smart, and what they do, and then they go out
and and effectively bargain it to the highest bidder in various locations, smart business for

Amazon, and for the area that gets it. It makes sense.

05:41

Yeah, yeah, absolutely. | think it's exciting for the New York area, | think it's gonna bring a
lot of vibrancy to the area, and they're good paying jobs, | think they're obviously going to
be competing with a number of the startup companies in the area for talent. But | think,

ultimately, it's going to bring more talented than New York area.

05:58

No, | think it's | think that absolutely, | think that there. And then also, Amazon is on the
cutting edge of everything. You know, they're, they're really way, way ahead as far as
using the artificial intelligence and using all kinds of systems that are available, ie the

electric, the computers and the cloud. And so the way up there, and | think that's very
JO

JO

JO

JO

all these things. So it’s easy at this point, it doesn't make a difference how far away you
are w news is the internet to get all the all the information, copies of the invoice and
copies of the checks and copy the bill. And to follow up. So you can do it, even though
you're not in the location. But it requires making sure that the party who's doing the actual

management at that point is keeping good books and records, which is relatively simple.

45:35

Would you insist that they actually have a third party doing the bookkeeping, and, and
that only the bookkeeper issues? The checks?

45:43

No, no, that's the bookkeeper check. Yeah, if they have a financial | don't know, it depends
on the size of the project, they may not want a bookkeeper. So | don't really care if you
have the if a manager is going to do it. And he has certain control over the bank account.
And then he's going to give you copies of the invoices and copies of the checks. That's
good. That's good control. Maybe assuming he's on our mobile person, which | assume it
is. And he's going to get thi somewhere along the line to doing the management. So you,
you work. Now you can also provide, how are you going to clear it with the bank that the
monies don't go through except some of you will approve them. So may be required to
check two signatures. However, the fact that the bank account may be in one location, as
the owner of the property is another location. difficult. But But you could also do it with
the bank that you require. It usually requires two signatures, one of which can be done by
computer. So you can get an authorization of a verbal, non verbal off but actual
authorization, but just just running it through the computer. It’s not an sign, but it's the
equivalent, and then it then it can be proved. So then the bank will go along with it. It's
like having two signatures, one of which one of which you can't get. | mean, there's the

actual signature, but nevertheless, you got the authority. It's doable. That makes sense.

47:05

Okay. Yep. All right. Very

47:07

good. Next question is is more of a general question. It’s actually one that that we're

dealing with internally, in our business. as developers, we all experienced surprises,
_)O

changes and problems that affect a project to varying degrees from one day to the next.
And, of course, when there's money investor money's involved, the general advice in the
securities attorneys is disclose, disclose, disclose. And, you know, many problems that we
encounter in a project, if certainly, if left unresolved, they could be a huge issue. But in
reality, a lot of them have practical solutions. And a week or two later, they're resolved.
And so the question is, when to share something with an investor. And on the other end of
the spectrum, you obviously don't want to be alarming your investors every week, with a
new surprise. What are your thoughts on where to set that threshold? Well, let's In fact, the
the example that mark gave earlier, would that be an example of something that the
investor should be informed of? Given? If, if mark is prepared to cover the 100? grand? Is it

something that investors should be informed?

48:19

No, such as effectively as there's no reason i say no, at that point, you don't want to, hey,
what what the we're talking about mark, that problem is what was done, | think, after we
after our discussion, it was, he wouldn't do it the same way again, and would have taken
more protection, but so did, telling them that only makes makes him look bad. And
doesn't really solve any problem, and he will recover the 100,000. It’s not a problem. Now,
what | would do, as far as the concern is, in your original perspective, whatever it may be,
at this, you've already indicated, the game plan. Alright, what you anticipate laying it out,
this is, this is the project, this is the defenses, this is the money, this is what comes out, this
is how we intend to do it. And periodically, you're going to get reports. And this isn't, it's
based on the following assumptions and indicate the assumptions, the assumptions. Now
the assumptions at that point, should be somewhat realistic. | mean, that’s a Don't Don't,
don't go way overboard. And assuming I'm going to get three times the income that was
anticipated, but nevertheless, we assume that we're going to, this is the money we're
going to do. And we're going to make that we're going to get that amount of income. And
this is the expenses. This is what and this is what is going to show up in the profits. And
this is what we anticipate. Now. That's fine. That's all you need. Now, periodically, | would
give the investors report and have what is what it is and tell them the truth, then |
wouldn't alarm them at this, wouldn't it? No, you're not. You don't have to tell them that it's
going bad immediately. But you should should keep them apprised. When it looks like
there's going to be a serious situation. And generally, it's just Stupid, giving them numbers
or counties, which they're not even going to look at, to be honest, it's like a, you know, you
buy stock, and you guys know it’s going to go high but didn't go low. So what I'm going to
explain what happened here, the market changed, and therefore, it didn’t work out. But
the average investor that is not is not going to sue, unless there has been absolute fraud,
or you made a total misrepresentation. So as long as you don’t guarantee something's

going to happen, it didn't happen, or, you know, you've laid out that it's ironclad, and it's
JO

JO

take it, they'll do anything that they can at that point to basically terrorize you. But that
doesn't mean they're going to do it. So you're saying as long as you're paying, it's a
performing note as a technical default. But if you're saying one more place of leverage on
let's say, the borrower side, is to even stop making those payments, which makes it a
further black marks on them. Absolutely. That's understand that the lenders are one thing
and only one do is get paid? Yes. Okay, that's all we want to do is to get paid no, at this.
So they're not interested in you're making waves and they have to go they have a lawsuit
where they have to show things on their board, right, all of a sudden, they have this the
bad loan, and accordingly, maybe it's involved, all of a sudden, it comes out that they get
to get hit with it. This part of the community in the neighborhood finds out that the bank
is now pressing, pressing the the owner of the property on a technical default, they might
want to kudos, but | wouldn't be | wouldn't, you know, you got plenty of time to fight it. But
| would certainly fight, | would never do it voluntarily to help to discuss it. However.
However, at this, there's possible at this point, you may say, in order to give me the
extension, | will give you some additional equity. Now, I'm not going to give you what you
want to give some equity. Maybe I'll give you a personal guarantee or give something

because you want to get the loan extended. Sure. But | wouldn't do it with cash.

43:48

That's helpful. That's that’s very good advice, Georgia. Thank you very much. You're
welcome. Okay, next, this question is from Sonia. And, Sonia, are you on the line? Actually,
| think | remember her saying that she could not be on the call. So I'm lost this for her. So
her question is what's the best way to audit an ongoing project? It's geographically
remote. And it's being managed by a boots on the ground partner in the project. So, you
know, is it just financial statements and cash flow audits? Are there other due diligence
items, maybe site visits? Would you hire a third party Inspector? What would you suggest

for managing a project that's being managed remotely?

44:28

Okay, | would say this, you got to have some way of checking it one way | can get a copy
of you get the all copies of all the checks and copies of all the invoices. So you've got all
the invoices and goalie checks and you can see find that these in fact being paid and you
get that monthly accounting from the guy who's got the boots on the ground, such as this
is my income, this is the expenses and basically carried taking it off the books. Now you
can rely upon that because it's it's probably factual unless you're dealing with somebody
who's skimming which is not likely but then Up habits in these things, not can be with the

with the data processing you have on your computer, reading entity and make copies of
