JO

JO

the percentage is now, at a certain amount of flack of variance, so that you can take into
account that maybe labor goes up or the the interest rates for the for the Fed have gone
up. And therefore you can build in a an agreement, where you have a fixed expense. So
you know, what it’s gonna be, the interest rate would be maybe 5% to 7%, depending
upon what's going on in the world. But also, I've done the two years, but you know, you
have a deal. So the commitment could be made by an outside financing company now.
Yeah, agreed upon that. And then basically, there, it’s usually tied into libraries, the the
library rate, which is a specific rate that they're owed for buying securities that is specific,
but it’s, it’s, it's comes out every few months that they have a rate. And if if the cost of
money borrowing goes up, then the library changes. On the other hand, if of course goes
down a library goes well. So it's, it's a rate, which is fixed on the availability of money at a
particular point in time, you can buy into that. And there are a lot of banks, which we'll use
that to say, Okay, | will make the interest rate when we start off, take the take a number,
give me a number, what percent do you want? What percent would you like? 6%. Good. So
| say I'll make a deal. 6%. But that's based on today’s live or whatever the rate is. So if the
library basically is is five 5% plus live or in libraries, one, that's your six, if library goes to
one and a half, you're going to six and a half. And the library is not something which
which very big swings, so you can tie in and say fine, | will pay this to you with a maximum
of x. So it can be more than a percent. And banks will do this, they want them to want to
do the deal. So let's say fine, so I'm protected. And there could be as good music, or you
could pay something more than libel, those LIBOR plus five plus for certain amount of
points above points above it. So you have as libraries 1%, you may be paying one and a
quarter. So they know that you're always 25 points above the library. And I'm not talking
libraries, just one one measurement. But there are others in new ones that have to do with
inflation trends and the use of money or soap. And the borrowing the the fed the Fed rate,
whatever it is, if they raise a quarter of a point, and you go up a quarter of a point, maybe
more, as long as you bought a top, you've got a maximum. And they're blank lending
institutions will do this, especially when you're talking about 1212 months to 24 months,

hey, that's not that's not way out there.

44:09

And the financial institutions incentive to enter into this feature contracts so that they

could balance balance out their own assets balance sheet or loan portfolio.

44:20

They would like to know that they've got it, that’s good. It's very, very good before that,
what happens? They will they're, they're willing to lock in and lock in, they say I'm not
JO

JO

18:56

Okay, next question. This is a personal question. I've got a friend and business associate
who I've known for several years, and they're going through a divorce right now. We've
done business together over the years, and the divorce is turning ugly. And so she's trying
to protect herself financially. Now, she asked me to help her show additional liabilities
within what is now a dormant company that she has a 50% interest in, presumably so that
by showing those liabilities, she'll have to give her ex husband less money. And the
problem is those liabilities didn't exist a few months ago. I’m not comfortable. I'm not
comfortable doing that. And no, so the question is, how do | respond so that I'm not

putting the relationship on the line?

19:36

And at the same time, the relationship? Quiet? | hear you? Yeah, the relationship is the
relationship is already on the line. Okay. And it's on that when | say it this way. The one of
the things that is very important, as far as I'm concerned, is not dealing to with friends and
relatives, because you can't handle them the same way that you would handle an
independent party. You're going to be if you don't do what they say, then you lose the
friendship. If you do against them, you may lose the rest of the relationship. And | say stay
away from it. It's not where you where you where you want to be certainly this one | object
to completely, because what you're doing is effectively falsifying information. And that's
wrong. Absolutely. That's not, that's totally unethical. She shouldn't even ask you,
whatever you don't, you don't do any part of that. And let me move on to whoever, if you
get involved with anybody similar gets involved with it. That's fraud. Yeah. That's fraud,
doubt, not fraud, and you can be pulled liable for the fraud. Yeah. And I'm talking about
criminally, not only civilly or criminally, because you falsified information on which
somebody would have was making your decision. So my feeling is in this situation that
you're talking about, then you should say, look, | am too close to you. At this, I'm too
personally involved with you, you really have to get an outside party, to whatever you
want to do with your will your your husband, your ex husband, you do with him, | shouldn't
be part of it. I'm too close to him, I'm too close to you. And | have to stay away. I'm not an
independent party. | am involved, personally. And that’s the wrong place to be. You can't
win that no matter what you do. You can only lose it. You can only have a problem with
the X or you have a problem with us, whatever. It works out, and they ask you to do
certain things and they figure your friend, why aren't you? So you have to keep it on a

plane where you're independent. So stay out of it. | agree. Okay. All right.
JO

JO

JO

Die)

JO

right version, these are not outrageous fees. And the real argue, right, they’re ministerial,
to a great extent, filling out forms, but the forms have to be filled out properly. You have to
be filed properly. And there were a lot of regulations which | had this a lot when we did the
offerings, condominiums, you know you had it. We have to go to eternity General, yeah,
we took up bases of doing that because it says, Is it ministerial? To a certain extent? Yes.
But if you don't do it right, you got a big problem. Okay, what's next? Thank you. Okay.
Next,

40:12

let's go to Sonia in San Francisco. Sonia, are you there?

40:16

Yeah, I'm here, George. Hello. Oh, hi, Georgia. |, my question is, we have a development
deal that we are doing ground up project construction, and we are looking to stabilize the
business. And also get in from permanent financing within the next 12 to 24 months and
some time in the environment that we're in, we're looking at rising interest rates, and also
potentially looking at a changing economic swing, is there something that we can do to
better prepare ourselves for that changing capital environment other than just performing
different models to see what interest rates might be? And then getting ourselves ready
that way? Yeah, do?

41:06

Well, do you have a specific financial company involved? The dude is going to do the deal

it's going to buy into the permanent who's doing the stakeout?

41:13

We are not we don't have anybody lined up to the permanent financing. Well, why not? So

maybe that's one way to prepare for it.

41:23

Yeah, | would just this point, what what do we do? The answer is, yeah, you should have
somebody that's ready to do a takeout on your permanent financing. And what you can

do there is you can work out a swing deal with a certain percentage, depending on what
want to build this particular building, it was facing the right Street, the right one. So feng
shui was not a problem because it was on a side street, which was very important. And the
only real drawback was that there was a store in the retail store was actually a fast food
store on the ground floor. And the ground floor, the fast food operation was controlled,
was controlled by a very close friend. And he was losing money doing it. So | said, at this
point, good. If | buy it, if | get involved with buying this piece of property, and you're gonna
get on our store, will you? You're not you're losing money on it. I'll pay for the expenses of
getting out. But will you get out when | need it? Sure. Not a question. So | didn’t buy the
property, but | took an option on it. And then | sold the book, | got an option on it. Now |
would like to get out he says, Sure, just give me $5 million, and I'm gone. Now this was
supposed to be nothing or relatively nothing. Give him $5 million. And he's gone. This was
a friend. So they're just | had to build her who would do build it be my partner. And
effectively we put up some money in escrow, | had a fight to get the escrow back. And the
building. It never came to pass. | never built it because | couldn't. So | learned one basic
idea basic item to take into account. Don't do deals with friends. Unless you've got a
completely in writing. Okay, don't trust anybody a lone nut boy, yeah, don't worry about
me forget that. And this was took me a lot of time to get to get the same result. | had put
up money in escrow. So put money in escrow at that point. And the law firm gave the body
out of escrow to the to the tenant who never moved. And | had a fight this fight and Sue
law firm at this, who happened to be the loafer | was involved with, because | told them, if
you ever give that money out without my approval, you'll never get it back. And that's
exactly what they did. And it took me two years of a lawsuit to finally, indeed, finally get it
back and tell and get the judge to convince you convinced by the law firm to do what
they did was against my wishes. So, you know, it's aggravation nobody needed. So the
enri hope is yes, it was a horror. | never built a building as a result of it. But the fact was
that | never trusted the friend again, that friend or any other friend to do what they would
do. People will do what's in their best financial interests, and friendship goes by the
wayside. So that was the only one really but it was a big rip was a biggie. That's a great
answer your question that answer your question. Yeah, there's there's so many lessons in
there, too. | appreciate you sharing that with us. Yeah. Now, did it make me a better
investor? Yes. Did it make me a better attorney? Yes. As attorney | said is was was what it
did is is don't trust friends. You're an attorney at that point. But you know, make sure that
everything is is right and done beforehand, before you get involved with a lot of dollars.
So yeah, it’s a learning experience. But it was never something which was no major loss as
a result of it. So it didn’t didn't change. My lifestyle at that point is painful. But if if it didn’t
work out, and | didn't, you couldn't even get to back a lot of money that was okay to
accepted. That was a learning experience. What you don't want to go through so much
for that. But a good question. Thank you, George. Very good. Thanks again. You're
welcome. What's next?
JO

JO

JO

34:04

Okay, next, why don't we go to Shana in Edmonton? He's got a question around engaging

attorneys. So that might be very timely. Okay. SHAN Are you there? | am.

34:15

Can you hear me? Yes. Yeah, can hear you. Fine. Fantastic. Thank you for the opportunity.
| have recently for the first time engaged a securities attorney for syndication that I'm
working on, he seems to be very knowledgeable, and he's providing a clear direction on
what needs to be invited to protect all parties and being compliance with securities
legislation. He's provided me with a lengthy list of items that need to be prepared. Some
of them are definitely required, and I'm okay with paying for them. And then on the other
hand, there's some things that | think that are unnecessary to have him do on a regular
basis, and that he that potentially | would be able to do with some instruction from him.
For example, each time we're issuing new units for our it's a limited partnership. we're
required to file some forms and issue a unit certificate. His fee schedule says that he
wants to charge $1,000 plus disbursements every time units are issued in order to file
these forms, and | feel that it's going to be a very repetitive situation that, you know, I'm
an excellent form filler owner, and it probably wouldn't take me $1,000 worth of my time
to do that, not really in the habit of negotiating professional fees. So I'm wondering if you
have any thoughts on how | might approach this or just the concept of having him teach

me a little bit as we go along?

35:36

Well, it’s, | hear what you're saying. And this goes back to you. First of all, when you're
dealing with a security situation, security regulations, and security registrations, or you
feel properties involved with with those regulations, that is very specific, and you need an
expert, and experts are expensive. But if you don't use the expert at that point, and
something happens, when basically, something came up and somebody is going to
challenge the rate of what you've done, you have to because it wasn't done, right, you
have to send all kinds of notices you have to do us, it’s very intricate. But basically, if this, if
you feel that what they're doing is too expensive. Get yourself who's a good securities
person that you trust, it will do it cheaper, but you get what you pay for, right? And I'm
saying this my my feeling from what | what I'm hearing from you and saying is you've got
the right person, and you think his fee is too high, | have never had a situation with the
same you get with a lawyer and say, hey, yeah, but the fee is too high. If they're if they're
qualified, if they if they know what they're doing, and they're the experts, and if it fits into
JO

JO

areas in Los Angeles, the highest ever. it's specific to an area is specific to a demand and
you have to know the demographics of what it is what we're talking about. In when you
get I'm going to build what is going on in the area in which I'm interested in making an
investment. If you look at it as specific and the nature of the investment, am | building one
family houses? Am | building multi family houses? That isn't my building for assisted living?
On my building shopping areas? What are what are when what do | need? If the have
good information in those areas? That's fine. That’s what you have to do. But don't listen
to what the housing survey says or the others depth. They just that’s somebody that put
together as very huge numbers. You don't know how good the numbers are. And you don't
even know if they know what they're talking about. I'm dead set against that. Okay,
because | see too many times they tell things are bad or things are good. And they have
there's a distortion because they're talking in generalities. Well, for example, yeah, for
example. All right, right. You got a survey comes out. The median price of homes in a
particular area in Westchester is $940,000. What the hell does that mean? Right? What
are they looking for and houses? What's median? That is what what are we talking about?
It was a particular area, would you take all of Westchester or did you just search in certain
areas, which are high, which you don't, it’s only as good as the sample and you don't see
the sample and the sample is you usually written by people who are not in the industry,
they're looking at statistics that have been countered, and they take, you take you look at
it, you will go crazy. And | wouldn't rely on it. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't build in
a specific area. Even even when somebody says that area is all you the newspapers say
that that area is lighted, it's down or what have you building in a specific area is real
estate is unique. If this you may, there may be a need for a specific item and a specific
location. I'll be there. That's not typical for the for the city. That's the beauty of real estate,
though you pick out what's what's what's missing, and you fill in the gap. So you'll be
talking one family houses in areas where they need one family houses, it’s going to work, if
you go to build great assisted living in an area where there are people that are retiring,
need assisted living, and don't have it that’s going to work in that area. So it's it’s, it’s to
get away from the kind of stay away from the generalities know, what you're building and
where you're building it. Based on the market philosophy, not not surveys or not results of

studies.

11:12

| mean, it's like the old story of Bill Gates walks in a restaurant, the the average net worth

of everyone in the restaurant went up. And it's mean,

TWA9
JO

Die)

JO

JO

JO

assisted living,

14:34

that is a business which is growing because now more people are retiring right at a later
age and have the need for an assisted facility. It didn’t exist. So degree before when
somebody was it was 7580 years old was was was gone. One step was away from the
grave. Now you're talking the 8590s and you find out because they have pension funds or
what have you they can afford to Be in an assisted living facility. So there's a whole new
industry, which is blossoming and | think is really good. Because the average age of the
populace changed. In other words, it's got they got beyond that, and they have more
money. So they're catering to a situation which is growing. Well, in fact, you're aware of
that. Oh, yeah.

15:21

Yeah, no, in fact, the the average age of people entering assisted living today is 85.

15:26

Right? And that's what, what's that? How much and they get an expensive proposition?
Oh, absolute living? Six? 7000? Yeah, that's correct. But they can do it. So what does that
tell you? Either they have done it through their pension funds, or their IRAs, or they have
children that can support them? Correct. So two different philosophy. Previously, if you
didn't have it, you think you could do it, you couldn't build it. And they're expensive, but
they do it the right way. Because why? Yes, it's taken care of, | have my meals, and | can

meet other people. And so it's changed the concept of the the old age home.

16:05

Absolutely. And a lot of people think of it as expensive. But in fact, if you compare it to

round the clock in home care, which is 18 to 24,000 a month, that's actually a bargain.

16:13

And they needed the idea of having the convenience of having medical among staff or
somewhere, somebody that you say gets taken care of, | don't have to worry, | can get

somebody that is going to take care and clean my apartment, | don't have to worry about
JO

JO

Canada comes back, he’s against it, he’s gonna have mutual tears. That's that's rhetoric.
Yeah, they go, they basically have their problems in the balance of trade. And smart
people will sit down and ultimately they'll resolve it. But what you what they hear and
what they say to different things, what actually will happen is different. In other words,
you can people can say anything, but what goes on behind closed doors are ultimately all
they're doing is striving for negotiate for a negotiating position, rightfully. So. You know,
that's, that’s, that's, that’s tough.

06:14

Okay. And let's go to the first question. Okay. All right. So the first question this this past
week, the senior housing industry published a new study that showed that the industry is
actually getting ahead of demand from the supply side, and occupancy has fallen to
85.2%, and assisted living across 31 of the primary markets. And for the moment, the
whole industry appears to be still building. In fact, even in my own city, you know, some of
the operators that | talked to are taking 18 to 24 months to fill brand new buildings, and
we're going to see another 2000 units come online this year. And of the new capacity only
63% is getting filled in the first year. To me, that looks like a train wreck, just waiting to
happen. Now, clearly, the industry is aware of the situation, it's being written about daily.
And at the other end of the spectrum, I'm personally seeing many secondary and tertiary
markets that are under service. And it’s almost like the industry's forgotten about them.
And I'm trying to make sense of the situation. You know, the major players, obviously are
aware of it, there's a demographic shift coming, but in my view, it’s 13 to 15 years ahead of
where's the supplies at? And so | guess, really a couple of questions. The first is, what do
they know that? | don’t know? And number? Nothing.

07:24

Okay, nothing. It was | would go back to square one. Sure. | don't believe in the survey.
Okay. | don't believe that the study and the study is flawed, depending upon what they
use as the samples and how they did it, whoever did this study, and is generally based on
on averages, and you come out, you're going to get this distortion, they say the industry is
is ahead of the demand occupants or demand. Real estate is specific is straight is areas
specific is city specific. It's is demand specific. So I've been so many times that I've seen,
people have said, for example, don't build in Dallas, because Dallas is that point is, is in
terrible financial shape for construction standpoint. Meanwhile, | know a lot of people that
bought property in Dallas, and specific areas for specific use and turned out extremely
well. That's real estate, right? That's real estate is the use in in an area you can say that

things are bad in California, when in Los Angeles, when when the the prices in some of the
JO

JO

JO

JO

01:11

| was reading back on the meeting between Ronald Reagan and Gorbachev. And they
were ready to walk away from each other. And ronald reagan came back and and said,
Can we start again? And yeah, they addressed it on a human level, and it changed world

history.

01:26

That's the thing. That's the thing. And this is one thing, we've got to say whatever it is that
Yeah, Trump made the meeting with, you got two world leaders that sat down and talk for
an hour and a half. And obviously, there there were a number of situations which they
have a mutual interest in and are important to the world. And that’s very, that’s helpful.
What comes out of it is to be seen with the fact that you can meet and talk is much better
than point then you throw Barb's at each other and say, You should have done this or you
you try to you know, tell you criticize before you do criticize criticizing somebody else
doesn't doesn't really help solve this situation. When you say, look, we have a
misunderstanding. We have problems between the two of us, let's sit down and see what

we can do.

02:08

Right criticize each other through the megaphone of the media or a state that

02:12

the media media distorted. It didn't make a difference what he said, didn't make a
difference. What he said is, and people have different ideas of what should be said or how
it should be said and a lot of the things that went on it have different importance to the to
the to people, you know, | mean, you're not talking about finances. Yeah, okay, they
meddled in the FA the metal they got involved in the WikiLeaks or what have you. That's
one thing. Meanwhile, what do you got? What are you doing to Syria? Well, hundreds of
1000s of people are getting killed. Right? | mean, which one is more important? more
clearly, than that many things, in fact that they have the 90% of the nuclear weapons in
the world are in the two countries, they have a lot to talk about, certainly something we or
there’s something they want to talk about. And so this is a lot of group things that are very
important that somehow get lost. When one by says, Well, | have this gripe and I'm not
saying the gripe, isn’t isn't warranted. Question is when and where. And certainly not on a

world stage in front of everybody else. It’s just that the media tear it apart, no matter what
JO

JO

21:38

Thank you. Okay, next question is from Tammy. Now, she couldn't be on the call either.
She's in Europe, her daughter just got married this past weekend. She's been on the call
before. Now, you've obviously been involved with mentoring students at Nassau
Community College. Correct. And there's a number of community colleges, I'd say
nationwide, where there's a shortage of student housing. Now, with community colleges,
many cases, it's non existent. students live at home or commute. And they tend not to
relocate to attend community college quite in the way that they would to attend a
university program. But some students still do relocate to attend their program. And what
are your thoughts on targeting student housing for community colleges that appear to be
underserved? You know, she has a particular one in mind, where she's talked with a
registration office, it's in Collin County, a suburb of Dallas, and they have a student
population of 39,000 students and absolutely zero student housing, she knows that there's
a market need from firsthand experience. The question is, what are your thoughts on
blazing a trail, creating a new product offering where none exists? Given that it may be
more difficult to secure financing? Because there’s no comparable properties for either

lenders or appraisers to compare against?

22:54

Now, it’s a very good question. That is, but it doesn't. The whole concept of a community
college is different, not a regular four year university, two years, correct. Two years, this
boys in two years they leave to go on to another university, or college and transfer or
basically they will go into the market into the workplace. So it’s not and they usually the
whole concept of a community college gets in the community, people do not come from
outside that community to go to that college. So either they either they stay at home, or
they rent a room somewhere, right? They're not gonna they're not gonna they don't need
an apartment. understand these are, generally speaking, from past experience anyway, at
least in Nassau Community College, these kids work to go to school, they hold out a
couple of jobs, because they don't have parents that can fund the tuition and pay for it. So
this knowing that, how can you expect them to pay to rent an apartment, in an office in a
facility or student housing, that it would be nice if the if the college itself would would do it
and fund it or build a building and say, Good, we recognize this, this is going to be for out
of town students, and we're going to put them in there at a reasonable price. That's very
expensive proposition. And generally speaking, the community colleges have a need for
money. Right. They're not overfunded. They don't have the endowments that you have in
a major four year university. So you're bucking the trend. You're thinking of supplying
something where there is no real need for it. You don't have that many students that live

that far away. That would would they would use utilize that housing. | mean, you could
JO

JO

have | mean, | would say basically, of the college takes a national community college. |
would say the students there, maybe maybe a little more than | don't think more of a
liberal more than 1520 minutes away. Half out there. We're all in Nassau County. Boy go
quicker. So, but this is part of it, they do travel an hour, this both ways, that's fine as far as
they concerned, but they don't can't afford to pay for an apartment. So they didn't have
that travel time. So it's just it's looking at a need, which is there, but it’s hard to fulfill
because it's so illusory. You don’t know how many you know where you know where it
would be. And we're what we, but main thing is, didn't they students in the college do not
have the financial ability to pay for a major apartment, they would have a fine you may
they so there's a what they do is they're far enough away, they may rent a room
somewhere in a in a building or in a house and so forth. So whether they do it on a, you
know, a short or short term basis, and usually relatively cheap, because they have to, they
haven't got the money to do it, to do more with it. So it’s a, | don’t see it as a it’s certainly

not a new trend.

25:58

| think that so | agree with you completely that the community college students don't
follow the same pattern as university students. If you think about Texas, there's a lot of
rural communities that have no Community College at all. So if someone is out in Midland
or someplace like that, or Tyler's someplace that isn't serviced with that kind of a school,
they are going to relocate that for a couple of years. So it's not a question of whether
there's a large demand, we know it's not a question is whether there's zero demand,
because that’s the supply.

26:27

Oh, there’s more than it’s not zero demand. This would be a, what we're talking about
could work is some type of a cheap dormitory type facility. Right? All right, but relatively
inexpensive. They say yeah, it’s available. It's like a rooming house for students, that type
of thing. Yeah, that could work. But you got to be it’s not that easy to do and to build. And
you don't know how many students you're going to get to go to pay for it. Because they're
limited in what they can what they can pay. And then they're only going to use it for a
year or two years. It's not. It's totally different than a four year college. Right. But we're
talking about big numbers. But that is me. And Phil, you saying you said as far as this for
this one, sir. There were like 39,000 students. That's a big college. Yeah, good. National
Community College got 23,000 students, 23,000 students at this point on a computer
Community College, that's big as well. That's pretty big. But we're also Nassau County is a

big issue is a huge area. And we do in Nashville and Suffolk County, near like, well over a
Ollee

PC+-+July+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

a Wed, 9/8 10:09AM @ 50:46

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, question, build, point, years, talking, money, students, area, community college, specific,

problem, deal, involved, situation, business, great, industry, hear, units

JO

JO

JO

00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:05

So welcome, everyone. Welcome to our week, or to our monthly mastermind with Mr.
George Ross. And we've got a great list of questions tonight. Before we kick things off,

George, any thoughts on the news cycle these last 48 hours? any insight you can add?

00:19

Yeah, | can add a new cycle. That's 48 hours. You mean with Trump and Putin? Yeah. Is
that what you want? Yeah, the insight is this, that looking at it, no matter what happened,
what we're not nothing, the news, we've got to be distorted. What you can always say
should have done something. Well, | think what was meant in mind, and | think the good
part is they potent and Trump did meet. And they did talk privately for an hour and a half.
| don't know what happened there. | don't know. But that’s good. And everything else is
irrelevant at this time. So you got to see what happens. But that was really the key, the
hour and a half the feeling that you can always assess somebody face to face when
you're talking without having everybody else, listen, or snipe or come up with their own
ideas, | think is helpful. If you want to accomplish something meet somebody face to face.

So | think that part of is good. The rest of it is all media hype. Very interesting.
JO

JO

your budget and do it. And that's basically as it sounds like it does fit within your budget.
Yes, it's expensive. And yes, it costs time. But you know, when in dealing with me, people
would come in with me and do it with a transaction. And they'd ask me to not do because
| wasn't involved with securities. | say, Fine, but | want to know at that, what did you go on
this particular transaction? I'm getting $1,000 an hour? How does that sit with you? And if
they say no, they walk, if they say, Well, you did that your fee, and you're the expert, I'll do
it. So | it depends on the individual attorney, if they're qualified, and from what you're
what you're saying over here. These are not outrageous expenses. They may seem that to
you, because they ministerial. But then but they're important they filings that have to be
you need somebody that will be there in your corner, in the event that there is a dispute
which comes up later on either via governmental regulation, or government lovers, or
somebody who bought one of your units at that point and goes after saying you got an
illegal registration, that's when you need the expert. And if there is a problem in the
development of whatever it is that the business venture, which you're doing, that's what
happens. They Sue or everybody Sue's so you can get her, you know, a class action. And
when all you need is one one person really to start the class action, and then it contact all
of the others and say, Look, how would you like to come in this cost you nothing? I'm
funding it, or I'll do the loi or get the lawyers to fund this before, you know you're up to
your years in litigation. And at that time, you want somebody that knows his way around
the securities business in your corner. Gotcha. So okay. Then | guess yeah, but | see it in
terms of, you know, a story give you a little anecdote. Sure. It may be apropos. And
apropos that boy, it was this man this, this manufacturer had a tremendous was
manufacturing textiles. And he had this huge loom that turned out all of this is fabric, and
the loom broke down. So he calls in an expert, this point fixed alone, and the expert comes
in turns one screw and loom starts to go. So he sends him a bill for $5,000. And he was
this 10 minutes. So the owner of the plant says Will you please itemize the bill that was the
the itemized the bill for $10,000 of what a word was? And he says yes, he says for
tightening one, one, screw $200 for knowing which route to tighten $9,800. And that's fair
enough. Yeah, that makes it know what I'm saying. You understand yesterday, My point
being he knows Yes, he knows what to do. And that's where that's where the price comes

in.

39:34

Alright, fair enough. I'll just have to consider okay.

39:38

To me from what you're saying from what you're hearing, because when you've got the
JO

right, you got to also take the other one, he walks into a restaurant, say must be a great
restaurant build graces in here, right? So it's, it's there's a velocity of what took place at a
specific time or specific instance. And it's just, I've seen so many fortunes basically, or so
many situations where people have made fortunes at this in a doubt what was considered
a down market, but not was considered a down market by others who were looking at it.
And they saw only what they wanted to see, for example, and | had a good said, play very
soon as | only wish that when Katrina happened, | was 20 years younger, because | would
have put up, | would have bought all as much of New Orleans as | could have. Because it
was had to come back is had to come back. What happened was it was an act of God,
basically, which did something that that people couldn't do through politics, it wiped out
the blighted area, and is quite as good. If you can have it, you can hold it for five years, at
that whoever did that is going to great because the way the world's just going to come out
of it, and they're going to be fine. And they people did that. And exactly what | thought
would happen happened to pace they did they said what the property for five years. And
then the next thing, you know, the world starts coming back and they got all this property
they bought for so long? Because nobody wanted. Okay. No, that makes sense. That
makes sense. Yeah. Yeah, that's it. And then real estate is specific. The demand is specific,
the possibilities expresses the system specific, as is the failure. So if if somebody wants to
build a get involved, find out the demographics in the area, what's going on, you know,
who's the one of the some of the best of this are companies that are in the food industries
that rely upon people's restaurants? likely the fast food restaurants or the supermarkets?
They do intensive studies as to what's going on in here? How many? How many people are
going into the area? Is it going up or down? What's the average age of the people? How
much do they how do how much money do they make? And there are companies that
have all this information on computers, so that you can get it? They can tell you? Yeah,
how many? What's what, of the people coming in in the last 10 years? How many of you
making more than $100,000 a year, how old on it. So if you get all that information before
you decide to go out and build, you're going to be armed appropriately to know how to
tap the market. If you see a downtrend you don't want to go into it. If on the other hand, if
you say it’s underserviced you there’s something you can say okay, that may be the area

to go over. I've indicated basically, it has to be you have to do your homework.

14:06

Absolutely. In fact, we're in the middle of architectural design on the assisted living facility
ourselves and the market study that you described. We just completed with all the
demographics and household incomes and household net worth and all that stuff that
you talked about and and it confirmed what we knew already from a boots on the ground
perspective, vago from you know, from touring the facilities that were there in place. So

yes, the market study supported NGOs etc. But we go back one further what to say
JO

JO

million people. But the students, which | see in my particular in the class, which | am
involved with these, they don't have a lot of money, they're working. So now if you said
good part of what they're going to do is pay part of what they the money that they are
working into housing would be a tremendous hardship for them. And | just don’t see them
doing it unless they have to. And then what they do, they'll get together, they will rent
some space and get four rooms or rent get an apartment somewhere with four of them
can share it. So it's not the type of tenant basically, that you would want on a long term

basis. And they're only going to be there two years. So it’s a tricky one. Okay. Well, no, |

28:17

appreciate the insight. | appreciate the feedback. And the fact and | know Tammy will as
well, which is you know why she asked the question, and she'll have the recording for when
she gets back later this week. So thank you. Okay, next question. Is from Sep separate you
on the line.

28:31

Hi, George. Victor, my question is, if you would please tell us a horror story from a real
estate deal that you were involved in, and specifically a deal that kept you up at late at
night and had a significant, long lasting impact on you as, as an investor and as an
attorney. And the questions are, what happens? Why was it stressful? And how do you
handle the deal? And what was the outcome? Okay, there's a lot of good questions. First
of all, | have to say, there's nothing he’s the up at night. So that is this saying if it shouldn't,
whatever it is, that | do in the business world, and I'm involved with, it has to be something
that | can if it if it bombs, | can live with it. So | can have to diversify. | can't, | can't bet the
ranch on it. So it can't be that critical. That it's, it's a life life stress threatening situation or
an emotional stress or a situation that does mean small, but never got to that particular |
never let it get to that level where it would have such a profound effect on my life going
forward. However, I'm saying this so that basically, when you say takes the stress out, it
just leave brings it to a situation where in a transaction, | always say good. Can | live? If |
give it up in the if the answer is no, then | shouldn't go into it in the first place. Because if
the answer is yes, okay, it may be expensive, but I'll do it. Now. What | did, yes, there was
one that was It was a very serious situation | was when | say serious that | had explored
and was going to do, | was going to build a high rise building in basically on the edge of
Chinatown in New York, where there was a huge need for a nice apart nice units, condo
units for the Chinese population, which number have a lot of money. And Chinatown is
basically very crowded. And | had an opportunity for a piece of land, which | had quiet

owned, and it was a very good piece of land in the right place exactly where you would
JO

JO

it, | have to go that | don’t have to do cut the grass, | don't have to worry about the
electricity. It's it's a different philosophy, which is, which is very, very desirable for those
that can afford it and say, Hey, all these things are taken care of. I'm like, perpetual
vacations. | mean, it's expensive. But what look at what | can do at my age, fabulous.
Okay.

16:48

Let's go to the next one. The next question comes from Pam, and she's not on the call. But
her question Is she had a contractor lay about 4000 feet of conduit for optical fiber. And
fiber requires a long radius 90 degree angle, otherwise, you break it when you pull it
through the conduit. Yeah, unfortunately, the contractor used a short radius 90 degree
elbow and wants to charge more, to dig up and replace those 60 elbows than it took to
install the entire underground network of conduit. Now, the contractor should have known
that he used the wrong elbows, he's an electrical contractor, we didn't clearly specify
which one to use. So the responsibility for the error isn't clear. The material cost is
negligible. So that cost is entirely for the labor to handig torn, you know, 60 holes.
Question is, how should Pam to go to be talking about? What are we talking about in
dollars, we're talking about $20,000 to fix the holes, okay? The thing to do is to get hold of
the contract to say, hey, it's really your fault. But let's get the problem solved. I'll put up 10
grand you put up 10 grand, but it’s interesting, split it down the middle and negotiated

down that base, because

17:54

at that point, what happens you're going to litigate, or you're going to live with with
conduits who can't just can’t work is not going to it's not going to work. I'm going to be
totally unhappy, and it’s not worth the aggravation, got to get it done. This happens not
this is not infrequent in dealing with contractors that the contractor says this was not
what | was supposed to do. And the people says yes, yes, you work. And a mistake is

made and it results in this mistake being made. There is a tendency to point if you want to
get it in two directions. And you know, it's you got to look and say, okay, that's the way to
do it. Now, I'm not saying he's splitting his foot, the cost, I'm saying to the contract, hey,
this is really you something you should know, you should have had the thing to do, you
should pay the whole thing. But | want to get it done and be nice. So I'll make a
contribution. So then you say say the contracts are good. | think you ought to pay like
75% of it and work it out. But if you had to split it 50 5010 grand and the overall thing is
not terrible. It's it certainly saves the total aggravation. Okay. Makes sense. Okay. Makes

sense.
JO

JO

to say, you should have said this, you should have done that you should have been more
forceful, you should have looked it up what the whole purpose of accomplishment is to sit
down and talk. That's the key part. What comes out of it, somebody will know time later
on. Right. But if you don't sit down and talk and trying to solve things in an intelligent
fashion, all you do is antagonize each other when you go nowhere. So my feeling is is
Yeah, | don't like a lot of things that were said or how basically how it was set up. But |
think what came up is the two did meet face to face for an hour and a half with nobody in
the room except translators. And the media is chewing that up because they don't like it
at all, because they got nothing to set, nothing to talk about. Right. But the two leaders
do. And | think something, what can come out of it, at least they met face to face. So now
you've opened a dialogue. That doesn't mean that you're going to get anything or what
but you opened up a dialogue, which is a lot better at that point than deciding we're just
going to we're going to gear for war, or we're going to gear for this or do | just think it’s a
it's a step in the right direction because they met as to results. Time will tell. That's my
feeling. And | feel that way about what you're talking about. Anytime you got a problem
with somebody or any people have a problem with somebody, talk to the person directly
talk to the person directly and say, Look, we're having a problem. What is it that you
really want? And how do we solve the problem? That's the way to go about it. Don't say
you took this you didn't do this, the price is too high. You say if you want to if you want to
have a mutual solution, we have to sit down and talk. Now that doesn't mean that you're
going to give up anything or it doesn’t work. But if you sit down and talk you got a chance
of resolving because you know what the other side wants, or most of the times people will
negotiate knowing what they want, but they don't want to look listen to really what the
other side Wasn't that way things don't get done. Having said that, what's the next

question?

05:04

All right. Well, just to close this off, | mean, just to build on what you said, clearly, the whole

discussion in North Korea follows in the same vein of exactly what you just talked about.

05:14

Yes. And meanwhile it is this is something will come out of it. This is good, you got to get
there. They're not they're not sending missiles in tests all over and things will, things will go
on. And | look at the same way, you know, when when the Trump sent out two things, on
the tariffs he’s going to do especially, or not, especially, but as far as Canada is

concerned, all that is, is opening discussion. That's all it is, do you think it's going to
happen the same way? No. And this is the thing he came back with the top man and
JO

JO

JO

JO

your organization. But understand, when when when something happens, push comes to
shove, they're gonna do what is in their best interest, they will lie, they will cheat, they will
do anything to keep it that's just human nature. That doesn't make them bad. That's
human nature. In other words that I've seen, so when the time comes, if somebody has to
keep their job by lying, they'll do it. They'll fulfill forge their little little falsify Rex to do
anything they have, if they if they if the price is right, if it's needed. So what | am basically
saying | appreciate what you what your problem is, but you're not going to get people to
live up to your standard, unfortunately, okay, great. The amount of ethical people and
really honored are really people that have a great amount of integrity. Is there a few and
far between? And at a particular point in time, if there’s enough money on the line? Or my
things they do, they will do that? finite, they will do what's in the best financial interest in
the matter what you said or what they have said, that’s what they will do. So just you
know, understand, and | started saying not to go into business, just don't you judge people
a little differently not to your standard, but whether or not they’re they are okay, in the

particular business, that particular function they have in your organization.

48:27

Got it. So what I'm hearing so find out what motivates them and that's why the date the

interaction is correct.

AB=35

Okay. Another motivated by money attempt when money is the answer money is what
you're going to do so and find out what really motivates him if motor if they have the thrill
of performance, given the opportunity to perform whatever floats their boat is the key, but
it's not they did not don't expect to Who did you get hold him to your standards of
integrity, because that's unusual, and very rare that you're going to be able to find a

similar situation in people you employ or involved with.

49:05

A second question | have following up with that is how do | get people in my workplace

excited about leadership development and personal development?

49:14

Give him give him a piece of the action? Can you say more about that? Yeah, sure. It's
JO

JO

saying at that point give them give them a somehow a profit sharing arrangement or
where they can make more money if the business is successful. So it's not periodic raises
at that point if the business is successful, you're going to get a certain more money than
you had before. So they have a incentive to make the organization do great. Okay, so |
mean that I've worked worked fine sometime a profit Mary sharing that or you know, this
lady, you know, who I've seen come calling you by you do this and we'll give you I'll pay for
a vacation you take your your wife or you whoever it is at that point, and we go to Florida,
some type of an incentive that they would work for, that would make them we entice
them to do a better job knowing that they're getting something extra. Okay. Thank you.
All right. Very good. Well, we

50:06

are at the top of the hour. | know there's still one or two more questions we didn't get to
tonight. So we'll keep those for next month. Great. Thank you. Okay. Great conversation,
great insight, and good and got some good. Got some good questions. Absolutely. And for
many of you on the call, hopefully, I'll see many of you at mahogany Bay village in about

two weeks from now. And so have a great evening and we'll talk to you again next month.

50:30

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
_)O

_)O

JO

making loan effectively. That's what's what is going to be two years down the pike when |
don't know what the rate is. I'm making a commitment to make a loan now knowing that |
that that loan will be okay. And they don't have to worry about it that the there's too
much competition in the lending industry. They don't have to worry about it. They now put
it on their books isn’t got a firm commitment. This is not unusual. And you probably you
pay for that commitment. Or you pay a fee that you pay a fee to pay a fee for them to do
that. We get a mortgage broker, so for several months, and then see how you can do it or
bank local bank, tell them what the problem is and that you're willing to, you know, see
that they you they make a loan that they'd be satisfied with. Okay. Okay, great. Thank
you. You're welcome. Dan Francisco is great, by the way. Very expensive. That's what

makes it great. Well,

45:28

let's go next, then to a suburb of San Francisco without making any judgments on whether

it's better than San Francisco or not. Over to you, Jennifer. Okay,

A5:37

so this is more of a personal question, | have been very involved in personal development
work, actually, Victor as well in the same program. And it's really changed my life and how
| see, | guess how I've really committed living my life with integrity, and having an
environment in me, that really pulls for a higher level of integrity. And a problem that |
face is that, you know, there are people who | interact with professionally as well, who
don't always have those same values, and it doesn't really work. And | find that when
people don't honor their commitments, or fail to perform what they say they will or fail to
communicate authentically or at all, | lose trust for them. And | really want to be able to
trust the people | work with. So | guess that's the first | don't really know what the question

is, but what, what are some words of advice you have on how to fulfill on this?

46:33

Okay, | hear you loud and clear. But | have to tell you, the first thing you're listening in, if
you're living in a dream world, people will do what's in their best financial interest at a
particular point in time, integrity has nothing to do with it. Okay. All right, it's a you, you
have it is fine. And | think it's a wonderful trait. But when push comes to shove, people will
do whatever they is in their best interest at the time as they view it. And you as being
involved in it, if you understand that, that's fine, then you can evaluate people, not to your

standards, but whether or not they fulfilled a particular need, that you have for them in
