JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

51:38

Get to know. Okay, okay. Very good. Excellent. Thank you. Okay, | think we're through are
we Vic?

51:46

I've got one more question. We if we have a go ahead. So George, I've got a project,
where capital raises stalled. And we brought in additional partners with strong funding
partner relationships. But once the project's been sitting stagnant for a little while, it starts
to feel stale, and some investors get scared that it's taken too long. Right. You know,
there's tons of examples of projects that have stalled temporarily for some bright, you

know, at some point in their life, how do you, in your experience, overcome that objection?

Bs le

overcome? Yeah, you know, overcoming rejection is hard, except to build in some type of
some kind of a premium for a Unix, more extensive the light coming out of coming into
law. So maybe you're training, maybe they're getting a little more interest or the
consultant something of value for waiting longer. Okay. That's the answer. Okay. | mean,
you get all the reasons they find this. So if the market has changed, what do we show
them? What if they're not hurt by that they will not be hurt by the delight?

oZA5

Well, I'm sure it's in this particular instance, the project has actually improved with time as
opposed to the other way around. So it is actually a better story now than when it was,
although I'll be later.

52°57

Okay. What are the things Another thing you could think of it this is to reverse it the other
way, say, hey, fellows, if you don’t want to go into the project, let me know are by yadii, |
buy you out. Once you want to give somebody their money back, they don’t want to take
it interesting, because they'll have well, they'll have this sort what he wants, he wants to
buy me out. He wouldn't buy me out if he thought it was going bad. He's buying me out
because you think he's going better? So the philosophy changes, the mentality changes
and they say they're more more on your side. Go try it. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Okay.
Thank you, Georgia. Okay. I'll call you. We'll start at the other date. Terrific. Thank you,
George. Everyone. Have a great Thanksgiving weekend, and we'll talk to you again next
month. Great. Looking forward to have a good holiday. Thank you. Thank you.

Robert 53:45

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio comm make sure

you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful
syndicating
JO

have a management agreement with the property manager. So they're all managing the
property on your behalf. Correct? Me Right, right. Okay. With Yeah, they got a fake.
Alright. Got it. Exactly. So yeah, everything was third party managed by this one company.
Then we got into the studio later on. And the core reason for that dispute was that they're
there. They also overseed oversaw the construction projects and make ready the
renovations and it was taking longer was getting more expensive, too many change
orders. So | wanted to find what the root cause was, and we created procedures, but they
still weren't getting followed. So | asked their employees, can | talk directly to the
subcontractor? They never told me that was not okay. The property manager never told
me that wasn't okay. And then | hit it off with the property manager and the property
manager | hit off with one of the subcontractors and | ended up hiring him for some
separate work outside of the company. The property manager He was furious about that.
And he gave me an ultimatum. He says, You can't do that. You got to go through me if you
want to work with any of my subs, or you got to find the pocket national company, and
we did. So there when when we let them go, they were still a holding Ranch, and we're still
waiting for those rent payments over Hey, what's going on? You know, we we've already
switched over to new company, and their justification was that there's language, there's
more to it. But just to summarize, there's language in their management agreement that
forbids investors from communicating directly with their subcontractors. And that was
news to me. So | heard her attorney, Attorney review the management agreements for
nine companies. And he found that the first five did not have any non compete language.
And then the subsequent four, they did start adding that in it's just one sentence. It's not
like it's a full, you know, one page out of answers notice. Yeah, so the the attorney, | had
attorneys reviewed every time and each time those attorneys would say, hey, it looks
good. It's kosher. You got enough not having to worry about this. They gave me the
authorization to sign up with the manager. Right. But they but they never pointed out the
non compete agreement. | say, the previous attorneys that were representing me, correct,
they did not point that out. | thought it was, you know, it was harmless. Okay, so, and |
didn't know about it. So this copy manager, when they added in that non compete
language and the subsequent agreements, there was no email, there was no phone call,
there was nothing about it. And that's what their their case of the argument is. So in
summary, the attorney | have right now, he doesn't feel very confident as far as the case

that | have. And I'm just wondering,

41:44

what the what's what's the case that you have? What's the what what, what, what, what
do you what are you seeking to get in the case? What are the Well, people that?
JO

JO

JO

JO

today, who knows we might be at or very close to the threshold. And maybe just nature

does its job and goes away.

18:36

But there's a difference. The difference here is one of the basic gasoline is not a basic
problem. Or when | say a basic problem. It’s not like the the cleaning fluid, they lose the
triathlete and chloride, which was which was definitely a hazard of a health hazard.
Gasoline by itself is not a health hazard as it dissipates, right. So it’s not as serious a
situation as it might ordinarily be. But it's still something you're out that the lenders are
going to be upset with. Because that standard practice, and they at this point, if they take
a mortgage out, and something happens, they are secondarily liable. That's the problem.
Everybody who has anything to do with it’s got a potential liability, but that those
remedies shouldn't do the project.

19:25

Right. Right. So | mean, | was aware of environmental insurance, | was | didn't know was

possible to buy insurance for known contamination,

19:35

no contamination you get, when you say non contamination you not have, you can get an
appraisal or somebody look at it, which I'm sure you have and say good, yeah. What's it
going to cost? Do what's it going to cost to fix, pick it all up, take local soil out of whatever
it is, and stop the the contamination on it. And that number, and that's the number that
you're going to be shooting against, and say, yeah, this is the worst possible scenario. But
it does improve, because over a period of time it's going to dissipate by itself. This is not a
situation where it's going to get worse, it's going to get better. Right? Right. And that
makes a big difference to anybody who's making a loan. What an environmental
indemnity

20:17

to the lender, maybe solve the problem for them. Absolutely. Absolutely, then, and then

back that up with an insurance policy?
JO

JO

JO

where you don't take somebody on that you've indicated the reason why, and you put a
good reason. So you could defend it in the in the unlikely event that so that they're going
to be called to task, which does not, which is not going to happen, unless you somebody
sends you a test case where the person looks good, except that you're being arbitrary. And

that is very rare. Good point.

36:53

All right. Yeah, that that suggestion are very helpful. But that’s that's assuming that it all
passes as this part of me wants to fight it. Right now. | mean, do you think that would work

against my interests? Actually, no,

37:06

| don't think whoever it is at this point, but you're on the right track, if you've got the the
Association of landlords that they're the ones that do it, get as many landlords as you can
do, they're willing to fight and to get the light there the argue that language ought to be
the way that they some way that they can live with it. And it shouldn't be totally arbitrary.
And indicate find that the landlord, hey, fellas, we pay a lot of taxes. You want us to rent a
bomb, you don't want you want us there, you want us there at this point, because we're
good, we're good for the city, we pay the taxes, and this is housing that you want. So you
shouldn't make it difficult for impossible for us to make a living. So it’s an emotional
argument, which does work. But they're going to do what they want anyway. Thank you
very much. | wouldn't spend a lot of money trying to find it. A lot of your own money to be
part of the association. Fine. Linda, you know, don't don't take it on by yourself and be the

one that wants to stop the law. They can't stop the law.

38:12

Excellent. Yeah. Thanks again. Victor, do you want me to give you know, go ahead for the
second question. The second one is a great question to go ahead. Okay. So second
question. This is a follow up from from last month's question. That was that was
enormously helpful. So we have nine oh, fees, each of them own rental properties in a
particular market. And our old property management company, we started out with them
with just one or two LLC and a small handful of properties and we grew with them to to
larger portfolio. Each time, we would add more properties, new acquisitions, new LLCs, we
had an agreement where | would just send an email and say, Hey, send us the
management agreement, the one that we'd already reviewed previously, and then we're

just changing the name and the they would just change the agreement. You're saying you
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

whatever the use of the water or electricity, whatever it needs. Is this boy that that

becomes a self freestanding project at a fair rate or rent is okay. Yep.

20:50

Thank you very much. Okay. And George, I'm assuming in that particular structure,
whatever advantages that you offer to that particular, let’s say in this case, the restaurant
owner, they would only apply to him. So if if he sold then then those benefits would not

carry forward to the new owner.

28:58

That is correct. That's correct. And | would also tie it into if he sells at that point, | think the
writer first offer right to first refusal. Right, right. So today, so he if he’s out and he solving
it up, we say fine, good sell it to me. And then it may make sense to pay for you to get
there just to get rid of that situation. And the property really without the restaurant might

be more valuable. Absolutely.

29:22

Yeah, absolutely. | love that. That's great. Okay, okay. Next, we've got SAP in California.
Separate either.

29:31

Hey, Victor. Hey, George, how are you guys? | SAP How are you? Great. Thanks for taking
my question. So | have two questions. They're kind of long. So I'll just go over the first one.
And then if Victor can let me know if we have time for the second one later on. First
question, the new mayor of Kansas City has expressed support for a new with they're
calling it a tenant's bill of rights that is being soearheaded by an outside socialist group
from a different state. That same group lobbied for, has successfully lobbied for pro
tenant laws in Washington, Chicago and some of the markets. And what this new bill of
rights entails is it makes it illegal for landlords to discriminate against tenants with prior

evictions of criminal backgrounds with poor credit.

30:20

You haven't seen the laws laws not passed? Right? Well, this is what they're This is what
they're planning. This is what they're planning. Yeah. Okay. There's a long ways let's put
it's a long ways from planning to the actual statute, depending on also depends on how
good or good your lobby lobbying is, by the, the real estate owners. So your brand, so you
have some say, as some say, as to what the what the law is actually going to say? Some,
not a lot, who the more political politically connected you are, the more you're going to
have to say. Right. Alright. So it’s a this is definitely a political situation. And it certainly is
a political situation for the municipality. Yeah, he wants to look good. And say, here's what
I'm protecting tenants and | by pressing law, that you can't be evicted properly, and
whatever other protections you want, and then comes out, say cc will do and | protecting
the poor tenants. That's the that's the the play that you have in the media, as far as the
mayor is concerned, or whoever else is involved. And that's good. The city council. Yeah, it
looks good. Yeah. And they, they put all kinds of strings on all kinds of things he's with, and
they show you how it's going to go to help my undid my record, not my recollection, over
the period of time I've had it is just ignore these, don’t worry about it really? Well, when |
say when the time comes, they’re not going to seriously enforce it. And there are lots of
ways that you that you that you can protect yourself, | think that you're not, you don't
have to take somebody you don't really want, they can't force you. And if you didn't, if
they turned it down, and you got a lawsuit, big deal, as long as it’s not pervasive, they're
just this is not a standard price as standard course of conduct, where you restrict
somebody from going into your units, such as UK say, Yeah, | won't rent to people of color,
| will do whatever it is, along those lines, some restriction, that broad university that that
then then you got a problem. However, if you've got somebody that comes into Judo want
there and you don't, you know, you say I'm sorry, | won't let you rent the apartment, and
you have a lawsuit on that that's, that's the single item which you can handle usually
doesn't usually go any further unless, unless you have somebody that comes up as a test
case. And there's they want, they want to get you. And therefore they send somebody in is
fully qualified, except those who are restricted whatever you object to, that's what you got,
what you're, what they're coming at. And if it's something that's more or less gone in the
past, when | say gone in the past, you don't have restrictions anymore on color, or race,
you don't have that, that's good. That's something that motion is apologies don’t have
protected against they don't want to it's fine. However, having said that, you can't when
you got somebody that's there, this is easy, I'm gonna go, I'm not going to rent an
apartment, the unit to you. But it has nothing to do with the race. It has a number of other
objections, and usually fine, unless it's a setup, you have nothing to worry about. And if it's
a setup you can defend. In other words, if they send somebody in as a test case, you can
defend that test case and say, Look, here's what | did was | had 10 situations like it and no
problem. Now it came up. Here's another one at this point, | have a problem within and |
have a lot of one on one, | would not be as concerned about it as you as you think you
should be. I've seen this happen and they and they, they'll forget it. They don't they're not

going to do what | say forget it. They're not going to enforce it. Unless you do you do it on
JO

jo

JO

JO

Well, it does. Yeah, you can replace it to the left, as far as the line of credit is concerned,
that's perpetual. Of course, it's not for you to do Ghana for a month or two months or
three months. It’s whatever it is, you need it and it’s there until you want to pay it back.
And they're satisfied with it. Now, they may say you got to pay it back within a period of
five years or something like that, or within a period of a year. But it’s never short term.
They don't need short term because they've got they've got the security that they want.
They've got somebody or some properties that have been planned if this loan goes bad.
And that's well that's what they're looking at Make sense? It does it works fine. Yeah,
you've got a push to get it because banks don't like to do it. And you'd like to say, Well, |
want to see I'm properly protected. And the piece of properties, | want to see your assets, |
want to see the whole bunch of things. But once you get it started and you start building it

up, and they see that it works, they love it. Fantastic.

09:13

Okay, well, let's, let's move over to some of the questions from from our members. First

question is from Patrick Patrick, you're on the line. | am Victor. Good. Hi, Patrick. Hi, Josh.

09:27

So our right so here's my question. So we negotiated infill land deal with a family who's
facing a power of sale situation. The family was what do you call What? What does that

feel? So we're just demolishing the existing property and building Okay.

09:44

Okay. | just didn't know that. That's a term I'm not familiar. Okay.

09:48

So the family was put in this situation as a result of dealings with a lawyer who acted in his
own self interest, rather than acting in the interest of the client. So among other things, we
believe that he filed fraudulent 34th mortgages On the property and did a host of other
things. So, so we're kind of patching the situation, we're bringing in funds to bring the loan
current and ensure there's enough funds to dispute the lien. So we secured our, our
$700,000 investment in the property with a mortgage and with an option to purchase the
property at an attractive price. So the total deal value is basically the purchase price plus

the investments we need to make to patch down the charges, right? So great. So the
JO

JO

jurisdictions at that point, they say, well, we got a 75 year lease that's really like buying
the property, but | don’t know what it is in Canada. And but it's, you know, that's just the
you know, that's basically that's a frill on the on the deal. You don't need it. Okay. All right.
Okay. But that that’s what we're talking about, does you from what you have, you're
telling me you already got when you took the mortgage out, you took an option to
purchase? Am | right? Yes. All right now, so you already covered that. So that's what you
also have, you can take an option to purchase on lease, which gives you a little more
flexibility depending on which way you want to go. If you wanted to sell the mortgage,
and still keep the option to purchase with this power over the mortgage got paid off and
still have the option to purchase. Now the option to purchase goods in the ground leads
not necessarily as an ancillary effect. Okay, it gives you more flexibility. Okay. Okay,

what's next? That's a good one.

13:51

Yeah, indeed. So George, this is, this is one that I'm involved with. This is a property with
an environmental issue. It’s in a dense urban setting. And the property is across the street
from what used to be a gas station. It was redeveloped a couple of years ago. And now
there's nine storey buildings sitting on top of that old site, the gas station had a couple of
rusted tanks, gasoline and benzene ended up in the soil. So there’s kind of widespread
contamination, all up and down the street, including property that we have an interest in.
Now. The source of the common contamination is gone. But lots of problems are affected,
including ours. Now, if we were to remediate just excavating on our site wouldn't solve the
problem because we're not the source. Right. Now, eventually, when we get into
construction, you know, we're going to dig down a couple of stories, we're going to put in
two levels of underground structure parking and excavate to the property line, so we'll at
least get rid of that potentially bad material. Now, gasoline We'll break down naturally
over time with bacterial action, all the rest. And the levels that were measured were not
that high. They're only three times the allowable threshold. Think 150 parts per million. So
they weren't very, very high. Question. Of course, as you know, lenders, as soon as there's
any hint of a, an environmental issue, they go running for the hills, because of the
potential unbounded liability. What's your experience in situations like this? How do you
get the lender comfortable with it? How do you get investors comfortable with it? What

are your What are your thoughts?

15:30

Well, the lenders, first of all, lenders never going to be comfortable with it. One of the

problems you have with this with with what, what you're proposing is that the liability is
JO

JO

JO

JO

05:55

That makes a lot of sense. Did you have other strategies like, like maybe having other

investors pledge funds, or

06:02

whatever it is of credit? Yeah, whatever it is, to get the credit, that's one thing. And I’m not
saying, I'm not saying that, that's something that's fixed is whatever, you've got whatever.
But the key, the key is that you now have the ability to get the money from a bank,
without you having to tell them what you're doing, and what papers you want. So they're
not, they're not looking at a mortgage. And so yes, a good mortgage and not good
investment, it's a good investment, they are basically relying upon your credit, which
they're satisfied with based on whatever information you gave them when you establish
this line. And it's over a period of time, but believe me, it works. And they love it. Because
if you're borrowing the money, you pay it back on time, they love that. And so now you've
established yourself as a good Good, good credit customer. And they'll that’s what exactly
what they like. So they know, or good every time they he actual money he gets, we get
paid back at a reasonable rate, the rate of this, they're very happy, because that’s what
they like a good paying customer, the key is not to get them involved in what it is you're
doing. If you ask them to approve your transaction via whatever it is, then you run a
different, it’s a different ballgame, because now you go into different areas of the bank,
then they go into loan to value and they go to whole bunch of other things. So that's
where you could have a problem. On the other hand, if you set up the credit facility, you've
already passed that you don't have it, they're satisfied with just you or whatever. So you
may give them securities in order to establish that line, but you're not doing it and giving
them a project that you want them to do and which they will pass upon. When | try when |
did that ensure that | said forget it. Because if if the banks were the bankers were smart,

they wouldn't be bankers. They'd be businessmen. Of course,

08:00

did you have any rules of thumb, for example, let's say you, you pulled money off of a line
of credit. And your initial thought is that it's going to be required on a short term basis. But
then you discover three months in six months in that you actually need the money for

longer. Do you then go and replace it? You go replace it with permanent financing?

08:17
JO

JO

JO

JO

49:18

Yeah, the most helpful Thank you guys. The attorney that I'm working with, | get the
feeling he’s very cautious. He may he doesn't sound like he’s as motivated. Changing, get

yourself a bulldog. Okay,

49:35

I'll do that. So, yeah, Gus is a bulldog. It sounds from what you're telling me. This boy is
very cautious. And it's, it's something that this is an easy, easy case to win. No kidding. Do
what you got to set it up. And as far as if | were on the other side for the guy, I'd say good.
Hey, tell you what | got. Get out of your head, give me a certain amount of money, and I'm
gone. And that's basically a holdup. But that's what we would say that because you're not
only you're not interested, right, unless he unless he can prove that contract is reasonable.
Did subs refuse to work for you and refuse to work for him while they were still? Not that
they would do would work for you? Oh, he's already got it would have to indicate what
actually happened. The damage is the result. Will you agree to the suppose the

agreement?

50:30

Yeah, there's nothing there. I'm not bad mouthing him? I'm not. I'm not telling people. I'm
not giving people ultimatum work with us to work with them. It can | just ask one quick
question. You mentioned the Bulldog attorney. How do you what questions Did you ask
because even the attorney I'm working with now came from a referral from a

management company. How do you find the Bulldog in the market?

50:52

somebody doesn't like litigation and contractual litigation. That's all somebody that does
those contractual litigate and is willing to go to a courtroom getting represented, you
know, they need somebody that says yes, I'm willing to fight, then that very often is
enough to stop the flow right away. So you said, Well, this guy comes in and he's a fighter,
he was | don't want to be involved. | don’t want to be sued by him. And then that solves
the problem. But from what you've what you're telling me or what I'm hearing, he got the
rule and the lawyer at that point. He's too weak. And so if you're, if we're if we're on the
other side, and | had a property manager, at that point, he was holding fun holding up
funds that belong to me. Wait, boy, I'd be gone at the district attorney right away.
JO

JO

how long? George? Oh, two long 60 years. Wow. 60. That's awesome. Yeah, it's awesome.
Great. So George, the federal reserve of New York today pumped 100 and not almost
$109 billion in temporary liquidity into the market. And the intervention came out a couple
of different parts. This is what's called the repo market, almost $88 billion in overnight
repurchase agreements, and 21 billion in 15 day repos. This is the bank injecting liquidity
where they basically take bank securities, whether it's a money market fund or a
certificate of deposit. Oh, you have it? Yeah, yeah, they exchange it for cash. So right. So
the banks have this mechanism that if they need some cash on a few hours, notice, they
can go get it, they've got the Federal Reserve ready to step in and do that. But as
businesses, we don't have what they pay for that. They do they pay interest rate? They do.
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Okay. It's not a very high interest rate, but it's still low. And | know
that, yeah. But they, if they need access to quick cash, they can get it. Now, when when
you were in the Trump Organization, you know, it doesn't matter what business you're in,
whether it's a big business like that, or small business, you get money, one of three
different ways to raise equity, you can raise some debt, you can use your own short term
cash, cash on hand, what rules of thumb did you have in place for managing liquidity?
Because liquidity is extremely important in any business, when the business runs out of
cash, they they go become insolvent? What was the thumb that you have in place?

Because we're not a bank? And we don't have the Fed that are at our disposal?

02:21

Well, that’s a good question. But basically, of course, your private business, you don't
usually have a major problem with liquidity usually have time to make your payments,
nothing is so critical. It's it has to be paid on a given date, otherwise, all kinds of bad
things happen. So liquidity is not the same for private business, but nevertheless is there.
But what you always had and | heartily recommend, is that you get a line of credit, you get
a line of credit, you're established credit with a bank, and a lot of credit where they will
agree to loan you X number of dollars, whatever it is that you're going to need. And they
you only pay for it, you pay something to have the line of credit there, but you only pay for
the money as you use it and evict Will you have to write they'll cover it right away. So
that's an immediate cash, you don't have to go through running forms. You don't have to
go through any documents or anything. It’s already done. And they've the banks love it.
And the individual investors love it, because it's there, it’s ready cash. So it's easy to do,

and it’s something | highly recommend.

03:25

And when you talk about a line of credit, are you talking about a business line of credit
JO

JO

JO

JO

20:25

Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. And if you have a Sir, if the if the environmental survey is being
done by reputable party, it’s accepted. This is not an unusual situation in many areas. But
it's one to be concerned with, because it never, in theory, it never goes away. | say that, in
theory, if something if something doesn't, is, if it hasn't shown up in a period of years, it’s
not going to get a chance to be showing up later on in the hazardous condition is entirely
different, is not there, because the source is now gone. As soon as the gas station was
closed, and the tanks were looked at, then the problem became fixed. At least it was a

problem. But you know, you know the extent of it at that time?

21:14

Well, part of the issue | know, you know, for example, if we were to dig up the entire site,
replace it with clean fill, because we'd be surrounded by still contaminated soil, we would

continue to be invaded by contaminants.

21:27

That's your problem, right? Haha, that's not your problem. You can't you cannot be liable
for the contamination, which is caused by somebody else. But that's always been the case.
Right? No, no, no, but nevertheless, but it’s your issue because you haven't you seen it on
the site. And therefore you recognize there is a certain amount of contamination on the
site. Now, if you cleared the contamination on the site, and it came back from another
source, that's that, that you would not be responsible for that, because the responsibility
would lie on the on the source that created that. So if you have a clean soil, and later on
becomes contaminated, you're not liable for that contamination. If however, you own a
property, which is already has contaminated soil, then you got the problem because that
you got to do something with that. But | would definitely not recommend digging it up
and replacing it with clean soil. That's a quite, that's putting a lot of money that's from

what you're telling me is really unnecessary. Yeah,

22:30

no, we wouldn't do that we would we would handle as part of the normal course of

construction.
JO

JO

JO

jo

22nd

Correct? Correct. And also the fact that you're you're telling me that you're building
eagerly gonna build underground garages, which you're going to have some are going to
have concrete, cement walls, which we're protecting it, which will be on the end, the the
sizing facility that you're putting on it is going to be way above ground, that eliminates the

great extent of potential exposure that would be created by having the contamination.

22:59

Oh, absolutely. | mean, someone with a car having a leaky gas tank will create more
contamination and coming in from the exterior. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. Let's go

over to Matt. Matt. You're on the line.

23:13

Here, Victor and George. Got by on the line, Matt. I'm here. Can you hear me? Okay. Okay.
What do we got? So we're looking to assemble some of the neighboring parcels you've
heard of the land assembly we're dealing with has one potentially difficult owner, he owns
a restaurant, the corner lot. Yeah, restaurants been a fixture in the neighborhood for more
than 40 years. They want the future project to accommodate space for the restaurant.
Now, he doesn't want to sell unless it's, of course at the right price. But we've preferred, we
would prefer to he would prefer to be a partner in the development. We don't really want
to require partners to get this deal done. But we want to get his personal under contract,
how would you negotiate with him? And how would you structure the deal? Is there
anything we can do except give them LP equity shares. As an owner, you become part of
the sponsor team. And it can possibly be an asset, but he also may be a risk as a liability

to the project. Well,

24:06

let's cut to the the very limited partners never a risk to the project. As long as when you
say fine, you sit there all you do is you got you got an equity position, but you can't say
anything, you have no right to vote, and no right to control it, which which | think you
could easily get in this situation. So that’s giving him a share of the property or going on
with a potential deal that works that you can do that or and you can also be retired in
that at a certain point in time, that that would turn out to be dollars. Now. | don't know
what his sales price would be. But if you should have an opportunity with one way or

another to acquire his equity position by paying them cash, even though he's coming in at
Ollee

PC+-+November+2019+-
+Mastermind+with+George+Ross

qe Thu, 9/92:37PM @ 54:01

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

property, problem, situation, pay, tenant, point, non compete agreement, absolutely, protect,
money, contamination, agreement, property manager, george, bank, period, good, project,

non compete, liability

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication memory club. It's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

O .

A 00:06
Hello. Good evening, George. Good evening, Victor. How are you? I'm great. Great. Happy
Thanksgiving. Thank you. Thank you. You too. That to everybody on the call.

O ;

A 00:17

Well, we've got a good turnout tonight considering it's the start of the long weekend. |
know there's a few people still scheduled to join. But let's jump right in. Okay, great. Well,
welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross.
George, of course is known for his years working as senior executive within the Trump
Organization. As a co star on the TV show The Apprentice is Donald's right hand man.
He's the author of two best selling books on real estate and negotiation taught at the law

school at NYU for over 20 years. And he’s been in business for over six years. Married for
JO

JO

JO

JO

a constant basis. And you're big enough so that they will be they will be concerned with
you. So if you have a lot of units and you take this leap, you have a standard again. Yeah,

they may go after you if you have a few Forget it. Interesting. Okay.

34:30

Feel better. So | have a question. | have a question for you. So presumably, you can still
turn down a tenant because they have insufficient income or maybe have not provided

proof of income. They

34:43

presumably know you can do that. Well, you could do right. Presumably, you can do it
budget, what you have to do is see that your record keeping is such that you have a
logical explanation. They can't force you to take attendance is not going to pay their rent.
They can't force you to take somebody to say This is convicted felon or traveling, you
can't do that. So you still have we still have protection. But when when you turned, you
turned it down What? You have to have good record keeping per se, this is why | did it.

And it was was logical. So easy nothing to say a tenant. If I'm going to put you in you got
bad credit as well, | want you to give me a year's rent in advance. Okay, the guys who like
back, give us rather bad, okay, well, then | got to do the deal. Or you got to give me three
months security, five months security, whatever it is at this, but indicated you handled it
properly. But nevertheless, you got the result. You didn't take somebody that you didn't
you didn’t want to accept for for good reason. For good, guys. Okay. Okay. But my past
history with this and I've been above naturally over a long period of time on is, is, yeah, it
sounds good to the politicians and sounds good. But you know, what happens if this didn't
go to funded later on and the people and the government that you got the next year that

could be voter office, and they're not going to want to soend money? Extra? Yeah, |

36:06

know, you've you've done a lot of business in New York, and the laws over there are way

harsher than this. Absolutely. You've already been through a bit more reassuring.

36:17

Yeah, absolutely. It’s long. But what I'm saying is, make sure that your application is clear

on your record keeping is clear. And whatever the when you have an adverse decision,
JO

JO

JO

family who owns the property wants to partner with us to develop the property, and they
don't want to sell the property because it’s a taxable event. And their capital gains would
basically wipe out any equity that they have. So they want to be compensated with an

income stream over time, maybe a small lump sum payment in the distant future. So my
question is, have you negotiated situations like this in the past? And would it make sense

to maybe bifurcate, the asset and provide a ground lease or something like that?

10:55

Yeah, yeah, go ahead. You're running, right, you're on the right track. Okay, uh, Crowley. In
other words, | would, | would say provide a ground lease, where they still own the property
they give you, but you pay a certain amount, you pay whatever you're looking looking to
get, for the use of the property, what whatever, or they're willing to pay for the use of the
property. But the idea is, is Yeah, you have your private ground lease, and you build begin
to build into the ground lease the option to purchase. Okay, so the tenant has and so that
now gives you situations, one, you could purchase the land, utilizing the option to
purchase under the ground lease, or you could utilize it under the mortgage, which you've
already got. So at that point, you've already protected yourself by having an option to
and you can build it out over a period of time. With with as far as the owner, the owner of
the property is so that they're not subject to be capital. Now, | don’t know. Is it this this
United States property? No, it's Canada. Well gathered, | don't know. But in the United
States, you have such a such a thing as a 1031 exchange where you can have a tax free
exchange. Hey, George, we're not hearing you very clearly. | don't know if you moved
away from your microphone. No, here | am. Okay. Are you better now? Yes. Okay. Yeah.
Okay. So there's lots of ways to do it. And the main thing is, is they want some kind of
income for the property that they gave they gave to you to use for what it is that you're
using it for. Right? They don't want to sell it, that kind of, | can understand that not unusual
at all.

12:31

So is doing Groundlings, the best way to avoid that kind of taxation, or is there another

12:36

methodology? The Groundlings is a good way to avoid the tax grout grout lease solves the
problem of getting them the income. And it's not it’s not a taxable transaction. Unless the
ground leases have such a duration, that it becomes the equivalent of buying of having a

fee, where you own the property. So | mean, that's why for 75 years, and there were some
a high price, so it makes Hey, it may make sense for you to say, Alright, I'll give him a
premium. at more than it’s worth, even though he's difficult just to get him out of my hair.
So that's one possibility. However, the other situation where he has a restaurant, that’s
good, so let me give a piece of land, he gets a piece of land, and can run a restaurant,
basically, that that if it’s your land, he’s got to pay, he's got to pay rent for the restaurant,
just as if he was a total outsider now that can be built into the purchase price as well. So in
other words, if you give him give him the piece of land in which he pays a very, very low
rent, or no, no rent, that adds to his value, he’s already got something that he didn't have
before. And you can build it build that in. So it’s great to keep it as two parties. And there
you can make them a silent partner, you can give them a give them a guaranteed return.
Based on what whatever you figure his his value should be lots of lots of different ways to
work it out. This is not an unusual situation. | wish | had a lot of these where where
somebody says | don't want to sell, | don't want to sell the property | don't want out. But |
want to be bought you're building an you're building a shopping center, | want to be part
of your shopping center is a way of applying that will work out we'll give you a good do
some kind of a lease lease arrangement where you get a certain certain amount of money
gives us the protection. And you have now the protection basically you want and you
can't get wiped out, is there a way to protect ourselves in giving him as he wants an equity
share, and but as the value increases, because of the property appreciation, is a way to
protect us from giving in robbing. That good property, the way to do it is if you can agree
on a number, that's fine, you can actually increase the number over a period of time or
you can have a you can buy it back based on the appraised value with the good
appraisal. And what it is at the time that you want to buy it or the good you're going to
sell it and say okay, here's what ended up giving him praise value. However, at this, there's
nothing so you have to pay all cash for that you can pay it over a period of time. So it
shouldn't strap you as you say, Fine, okay, you I'm giving you a million dollars, but your
property was only worth 700,000. So I'll pay the give it more just to get rid of you, but I'm
paying it over pretty is at an attractive rate of interest. There's a lot of ways to look at it.
Absolutely. You said Robin to several are often was one way that usually what's the best
or that usually depends on the it depends on it depends on who you're dealing with, what
they want, who it is that it may be that right now they don't want to sell, but what maybe
he wants to sell later on. Maybe Maybe he would give you an option to price at a higher
price premium, just to how do you have the control, you're not buying it. But if you if you
have to get rid of them, you give them a premium to get rid of them, if that makes sense.
So you paid you paid more than it was worth but meanwhile you got him out of your hair.
And so if the property has appreciated tremendously in value, then it’s a good thing to
buy him. Lots of different ways to handle that one. not that difficult because he was
because he wants the restaurant. But no, but you also want to tie into the restaurants not
going to not going to diminish the value of your property to put in protections is how he's

going to going to operate and what it is, you know, the whole thing in the parking,
JO

JO

JO

forever, it's not limited to a certain period of time, if it ever comes up, everybody that's
involved is going to get get involved with it gets get sued did you did it your company,

and it just keeps keep going. That's that's the hazard. That's the problem. It’s not the
actuality. But that's the potential problem. And that's what it is as far as lenders are.
However, having said that, there is if you can get an environmental study, what you have
is the what it would cost to remedy it. And then you can protect that by what it would cost
to remedy it to put up a bond or something along the lines, get somebody that that would
underwrite it if in fact, the liability was some type of insurance to cover the cover the
problem, it is available, it is available, depending on the extent of the problem, it's a
problem is tremendous. And it looks like it's it's a continuing problem forever, that
becomes a more difficult thing to do yours is not because the court the source of the
contamination is gone. So this is residual. Yes. And the longer it is residual it is over per
time it dissipates. So it's not going to be their current liability is diminishes over a period of
years. Unless something shows up. That wasn't foreseen, which of course, you've already
covered by your your environmental impacts. So this is not so it’s just residual. It's soluble.
It's difficult. But it's it is soluble, and there's you can get insurance against it. That as to
what's what's involved, and you can get an estimate. So if you if you've done the courtly
you Do you know what the cost of root remediation would be? If you had to dig it up? You

have to find it out when you go when you go into your building.

17231

Yeah, yeah, | mean, we know what what it’s gonna cost to dig that foundation and go out
and touch it without that because in truth, ministry, ministry, the environment knows
about it. They've known about it for two years. If it was to be remediated on a large scale,

they'd be talking about ripping up the street and probably a dozen.

17:48

Right. And not only that, if they thought it was a hazard, they would be all over you.
Exactly. Yeah. And and they haven't been, nor nor any of them. They reckon they
recognize the fact that it was underground tanks. Which ad which, which leaks as reorders
rusted. And as a result, it shows up in the, in the soil, but it there also take tests as to how
bad it is, if it's not too bad, you're not going to have a problem, and it's not going to be

too bad. From what you're telling me at this. It’s past history. Correct. In fact,

18:21

you know that the latest test that we have is two years old, that if we were to run a test
JO

JO

JO

unsecured? Are you talking about a secured line of credit? No, it's

03:32

not. Yeah, oh, yeah, whatever it is, it could be could be whatever it is, to get the bank to
make the loan. So you may have to give them securities, you may have to sign personal
papers, whatever it is, whatever it was, whatever is required, that’s what you do, but in
there. And the main thing is, is there when you need it, it was early on, or what | did a
number of years ago, when | basically, when | made investments | made mortgages or
what | had, | gave the mortgage to the bank, and | signed personally. And as time went
on, | said, | don’t have to do that, because | built up credit with and | said | want | want to
know that | can borrow from you. up to a certain amount was on my signature, no security
other than icing. And it was a big push, but they did it not written not really not reluctantly
accepted. | told them that this is something has to be done. And it got to a point where |
could borrow or | could write $500,000 on my signature with no security other than me.
And that was tremendous calling card if | if | needed the money, it was there. They never |
never had to tell them what it was for. They never okay. And it was | found it very helpful in
all kinds of business transactions. Because if you have to throw skin into the game, it was
there. When | first started out they wanted to know what | was loaning. When | find it
ended up | said, Look, | know what I'm doing and you see it over a per year. So just give
me the money. And that's what they did. Highly recommended. So you presumably built
up to that over a period of time where you started out with a small amount over like a
period about five years. Yeah. And whenever one bank wouldn't one bank said, | won't
give you We won't give you more than 200,000. | wouldn't change the banks, and went
and told them | had told the next bank Look, | had a good record over here. And they you

want a new customer? Here it is. And, yes, you build it up over.

05:24

| love that. And of course, the, the, the key is not to use that, except when you absolutely

need it.

05:31

Of course, absolutely. And it just was there when | wanted it, all | had to do at that point
was a column that was right out of track. And that where they put their money in the in
the gotten started building, mate. But yeah, that was it worked worked fine. And it was a
wonderful, excellent calling card. If you want to do business with somebody, when you

have the ability to put in a certain amount of your cash right away.
JO

JO

JO

JO

44:54

| so | actually have evidence of that | didn't even think about it that really turns the tables
around. Because they there are literally subs that they're afraid to work with us because

they think that the property manager is going to sue them

45:07

perfect. Perfect. That's a perfect thing. | didn't even think about that noncompete basic
non compete, obviously, courts don't like non compete, they don't like a generally now a
non compete, have a situation where somebody has a one party has a particular unique
situation that's with them and they will be injured. If in fact, you could tell if you were now
going after somebody else's customers, and you don't have the right to go after or you got
the customers? That's right. That's typical with the type of a non compete, not the one
that you're talking here. This one, this is purely hold a hold up. That's all yeah, that's all this
is. He's not entitled to non compete. And if you push up, do what you got to prove, prove
his damages, what's your damages? What did he lose, because you use this as a bruised

ego. But it's hard to collect money for a bruised ego.

46:07

As l'm listening to a couple things come to mind. The first is that a non compete as |
understand it, and correct me if I'm wrong, George is usually used to protect someone's

intellectual property we're like, exactly right.

46:19

Right. Absolutely. Right. And it's right, it's something is protection of something that is
unique to the party look that should be protected. So it's a shield, not a sword. You lot you
learn something from me, or this and therefore you get used it to my detriment. So you
can't you can't steal a customer as a result of the fact that there was a non compete,
where that where they, you're using my technique, my information, my property to get a
copy. So now all you're doing is you're taking this and stealing and stealing a customer of
mine based on my information, or based on my tech my technique. And that's, that's
different. You're absolutely absolutely right on that property or something that unique to

the party looking to be protected.
JO

JO

JO

JO

47:07

Right. So generally speaking, it's actually illegal to to eliminate competition that violates
any trust laws, absolutely. They can put you out of business. No, and it and if this other

company is frowned

47:20

upon, | understand this. Generally speaking, courts frown upon non compete agreements,
unless they're tied in for a certain period of time, like a year or two years, to give the to
give the the opposite the other side an opportunity to protect themselves, but not one
that runs for rabbit hole runs for an unlimited period of time. There has to be some

justification why you would need it. Yeah, this

47:47

though the wording in the agreement. There was no timeline, it was it was indefinite data
stamp. That's all to your advantage. Okay, one question. So this this Policy Manager is his
background was originally as a mortgage broker, and | think, is just seeing it from his point
of view his logic as well. So I'm going to connect, you know, if he's, if he's a mortgage
broker, he’s connecting a client with a bank, and he has to get his fee. So he's used to
having noncompetes, you know, bridging the gap with that could mean he could he still

make a case that, hey, | gotta make my money on. On a construction management,

48:20

| can't have. Okay, no, no, no, no, no, no, this is a shortcut and a piece or if you hold the
Brent's, all the money, you got him, you got him, you can't do that. That's a criminal
breach. Wow, | got what | say to a, any party at this point, who has money that belongs to
somebody else, and holds it up improperly, is guys like as liability? So this is it, you know,
you're dealing with an agent, an agent who's got the product, they got it, he can hold up,
he can't hold up a payment that’s made under a contract. And this is very similar
situation. You can threaten, and it becomes a course and it becomes a bargaining chip,
that he's going to use the fingers. He's going to get you to do something you might not
ordinarily do. And he's absolutely right. But that's a that’s a loser. That put him after you.

And then the courts are very, very reluctant to permit that. Very interesting.
JO

JO

41:54

So one of the one of them is basically they have a fiduciary responsibility is the property

manager to look out for the clients best interest? And

42:03

that's it. So you saying, basically, there's a breach of their agreement on the property
management agreement that they haven't performed, what you think they should
perform, or what the agreement says, am | right on that? You're right, but they're saying,
when you say Goodfellas get lost, | don't want you anymore. Right? Well, you you need to
be you still need us? Because you can't get we got a non compete agreement. So you can't
use our SOPs. Correct. Right? Okay. So that's a guess, fire him and get rid of, and then
they got a good lawsuit, to a good lawsuit. That's what we call it assuming they are not
performing. If they're not performing, then you can take the non compete and free and it
Forget it. The non compete is something that's that is not going to be upheld generally in
law, in addition, that what are their damages they have when they're the damages what
they lost by having by your compete using their subs. And that’s extremely hard to prove.
extremely hard to prove. You'd have to say, Good, this is what happened. What did you
do? What did when when you use this up? How are they injured? They weren't the right.
thing, aside of the fact that they mad at you, because you violated the claws. And they
think they can hold us over your head, you want to use theirs? Do you want to use their
subs? And they want it and you can you have to pay them to get permission to use these
subs. Correct? Yeah, totally. There's also you can you can go after them? | don't know is
this in the United States? Or it’s in the US right? Now. There is such a thing. And you tell us
the your lawyer as fraud in the inducement. Okay, that's, that's that’s, it's not generally
used, but it's it's appropriate when fraud in the inducement that somebody gave you
something without telling you about it. And it's fraudulent. So, for example, that’s what
they put put a clause in an agreement that shouldn't have been there and they never told
you about it, or they changed something around. That's a good cause of action. You don't
ordinarily win it. But as far as we're concerned here, it's it's something that you definitely
can use. Because in the event now you what what's happening is you've changed the tone
of litigation, you're now saying, hey, because of this non compete agreement that you put
in there, | couldn't hire the subs that | wanted and therefore | was injured meaning you
now that's a whole different things that you can so not only how they were injured by you
of breaching the non compete agreement, how you were injured by their putting the
nightclub even in so there were now some subs that refuse to work for you because they

would they knew that you had this non compete. Wow,
