to when | can't give you the content think of that. But why will it change because this is
not normal. This is an artificial problem. Artificial This is not that all of a sudden business
was bad and The economy was bad. | couldn't do this. Now. It's artificially induced. Now
I'm not it's not minimizing it by any means, but the fact that it was artificially induced, you
can say what? Yeah, let me get rid of the problem, the artificial inducement and things
will, will go will go back not to normal, they may exceed normal. Now, if you get how much
money is being put in, to the economy, certainly in the United States, what a stimulus is, |
mean, you're putting in billions and billions of dollars to this this job, and people are
getting the, they're getting more money, then if they don't work than they did when they
did work. For how does that doesn't work? That doesn't make sense. And now you're
getting more and unemployment insurance and other things to do along the way. So as
you have a tremendous push, by the government's to say, hey, we've got to make the
employee the people in our country whole or better, because this was not their fault. This
is not a normal situation. And therefore we have to step up to the plate. And that’s what
they're going to do. There's an opportunity to invest you back. Because what happened is
most of the people who say, Yeah, | don't know why the government got to do this, they're
going to do as they say, | don't know, | need money to do | need money now. And how do |
know | have it, I'm not going to pay my if | don't pay my rent, if | don't pay my mortgage,
I'm going to lose my house, I'm going to lose my business. All of that is true, but most of it
is fearful. They're not going to lose it. It's not going to happen. As | said, I've got buildings
or inviolability tenants not paying the rent, what am | going to do? What are the tenants
going to do? What are going to stay there until | roll my eyes? And I'm not going to throw
them out? Because | can't get anybody else. And of course, not gonna let me draw on that.
So you've got to be a nice landlord, you can say, hey, look, fellas, you have a problem, |
understand that. Let’s work out the problem. You're going to have to pay me to rent,
maybe you pay me a little more elaborate. I'll loan you what you don't have, for a period
of time, get you over the hurdle. That's what's going to happen. And just the question of
what the terms are. But having said that, if in fact, which will happen. a landlord does that
does not pretend and have a better relationship with a landlord. So now when things turn
around, and Leyla says, look, you remember, | helped you out when things were bad? Now
you're paying me $50 somebody has to pay me $60 | want you you should pay me 60?
Because | helped you before you owe me one. No, yes, absolutely. Absolutely, it's an
opportunity. This is a an opportunity to improve to get more than you would ordinarily
think you'd be able to get. But but because you really have no alternative. And you have
no alternative to be a nice guy and work it out. And the tenants will love you will love you
for it, then the landlords. | mean, it’s the tenant goes to a landlord and say, Look, | can't
pay you now, but I'll pay you this, I'll pay in 60 days, 90 days, the end of the landlord says
okay, but I'd like you to pay me interest. Kind of says, Okay, fine. That's what works out
assuming the things that the tenant can make the rents which he has over a period of

time or later on. Then they say you got a happy landlord and a happy tenant. a landlord
became a lot of made alone, which he hadn't anticipated making. You got to go with your
flow. Great. Thanks, George. Terrific. Okay. Thank you, George. When we talk again next
next week at that point, let's see if we don't have something next month. Let's see we'll
have a clearer perspective of what the what's going on. Absolutely. In the meantime, let
everybody say well, as best they can. Thank you. Same to you. Okay, good night signing
off. Okay, I'm gone. Right, can |

Robert 54:04

there's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful
syndicating
JO

JO

JO

JO

37:57

it's not necessarily the legal precedent, | am saying, you don't know what the atmosphere
is, at a point in time, you know what it is now? All right, right. Now, at that point, my
suggestion is, | would stop paying, if | was a tenant, | wouldn't pay to rent and let my
landlord do what he wants. And I'm a landlord at this, so | got tenants. | didn't get paid
this month. Sure. So that were because | can candy victim, because a good judge, it’s not
going to the court is not gonna let me victim. So | went to court, because the tenant didn't
pay me rent. And whether the judge the judge is gonna say, hey, to work out a deal that
this week, it’s big, he didn’t have any income. He didn't have the job, and the Corona, dry
fires to do all of this, work out something a better deal. So that's what will happen iliza do
it between buyers between the two parties, or the or you'll be forced to do it as part of a
litigation. But they're not going to throw them out. And they're not going to foreclose

mortgages. Any bet that's not going to happen.

38:57

Interesting. Do you foresee a moratorium on foreclosures? Like we saw post 2008?

39:02

Absolutely. We got it now. You got it? No, they're not gonna, they're not gonna make it
worse. | don't think the banks are going to foreclose. Because they don't want to vacant.
They don't want the property to foreclose, they, what are they going to do with it? So it's a,
they can work it out. It will work out between the parties at a specific point in time. And
you probably make some type of a short term arrangement, where you say good for the
next three months, here's what we'll do with the next six months, here’s what we'll do. And
then you got to make a port at the end of the six months to get back to normal, or get
back to what it was before. And what happens if you don't get back to what it was before.
You're going to sit down you're going to negotiate again. That's where it’s going to end up.
It's a great situation for a negotiating lawyer like me, you could make a particle. Okay,

okay, what's

39:59

next? Let's go to sia sia, you're on the line. Hello? Yes, we can hear you.
JO

JO

JO

they should be controlling interest. And what happens if they don't do it. Now, what you
can do another one, there were alternative procedures, it does not, you're going to get
penalized. The share that's a decision there can be reduced, though it's not instead of
having 5% 10 to 20%, it goes 18% to 15% is reduced out or it may be ignored, get bought
out of the tremendous discount. Because you're not acting you're not acting as a as a true
partner. Right now, if you have those in place, which you don't under this situation, and I'm
not being critical in that. But if you had them in place, then you have much more leverage
when you go for a capital call. So you're saying you can call you can make a capital call
and penalize those who are not willing to make the call? Oh, yeah. But you can if the
answer is yes, you can. But you're limited by the documents that are created. Otherwise,
you can do penalties. What's the penalty? If you haven't set forth a penalty or what the
procedure is, then you it's not going to be effective? When the majority isn't going to

agree to a capital call anyway? Well, good. What are you gonna do lose the property?

18:32

Well, the question is potential, we could we wouldn't lose the property because? Well, |
guess we could because there is a lien a million dollar loan. But my question for you is
more of a strategic question. And because I've become to not trust the partners. Is there a
strategy? Does not trust the partners? What do you mean by that? | don't think our
interests are aligned. | have our investors money invested in this deal. And because couple
of the partners don't have any skin in the game, they're being reckless with finances. How
can they not have skin in the game? Because we structured it wrong. Okay, isn't it was not
a good?

19:24

I'm not, I'm not, you can't go back and do it. And then I'm not critical and what was done.
Unfortunately, this is a lot of talk, you people, you have a tendency to trust each other
when there's nothing on the table. The problem is writing something on the table. Now
that people go in different directions because there's a different time in place. Somebody
who's got a lot of money, somebody has a little money somebody wants to make, make
more investments and wants to pull out. So the next key for the next go round, not this one
is you make sure that the documentation covers every contingency as to what happens in
the event that one of the parties who doesn't play up there, there share. What can the

other parties do?

20:04
JO

JO

JO

JO

and his lease is up, what are you going to do? And you can get somebody else for eight.
That's the opposite side of the coin, right? Depends on what the market is, the market is at
a point in time and did a workout, you may not make as much as you were involved, as
easy as you anticipated, and it's not gonna be but over a period of time, it will, it will work
out and the banks will go along with it too. Because they have no alternative. They don't
want to they don't want to take over vacant store. Okay,

36:31

well, | guess this kind of leads a little bit into a later question. So let me bring that one
forward, since it's related, which is that there are a number of situations now where
lenders are offering forbearance agreements, via at an interest holiday for 90 days or
what have you. But then you've got to pay the back rent, or the back loan payment within
the following year. And of course, there's no guarantee that you will actually have the
income to do so. So the way these are worded, they're typically a one time offer. They're
relatively short term deferrals. Yep. If it were you, would you sign a loan forbearance

agreement today,

37:12

or would you wait, no, no. The answer's no. Okay. Wait, wait for a future.

3721

| don't know what the terms are going to be in the future. But what are you gonna wait,
wait, I'm not going to lose the properties, there's no judges, there’s going to throw me out.
Based on the set of facts or judge, | can't afford to pay the rent because of | was closed as
a result of a COVID-19. throw you out. And they, of course, are going to be very, very
lenient. And the banks are going to have to go along with it. Because you know why the
banks of the courts will make them go along with it. So you'll get better terms later. wykes
twice on now.

37:49

So you'll see your answer. So you're saying that the legal precedent, the later you are, the
better terms you'll get? Because
JO

JO

JO

JO

27:36

Do you think the current environment, it’s very temporary, and when | stopped again,

27:43

I'm looking at what you're planning on doing with the money. And if you're telling me this
point is you're going to build an assisted living facility. And you're going to take that
assisted living facility Now you may have in that | would certainly modernize your plans.
So that it comes up with exactly what the what the government would want. Where's this
policy going to be? in Northern California? In Northern? Yeah, well, it just got to be exactly
what they want. And they're going to be taken to you have all kinds of protection of what
happens in the event that is it a virus or saw or something like or healthcare facilities. So
you're going to make it now what | would say, as state of the art, whatever that may be,
and it's changing now. But in the event, that you do create a state of the art facility, you're
going to have help from the government, from either local government or the federal
government, because that's what they want. So now, what do you think? If you go, let's
suppose you take a loan from the bank, and the federal government backs up that loan,
not that it’s going to be the deficiency. So if they think they were under insured for a
million, at that point, you get the government says, okay, hey, if you take over our
guarantees, you won't lose more than that. You won't lose the million. That's what you're
going to find is going to happen now past time. Yeah, that's it. To me. That's the same way
with all of these are the industries at this, they need money, they're going to get it from a
bank and the bankers who will the industry is not producing it. They're not making any
money. They're losing money. How do | know I'm going to get paid, the federal
government says, Hey, I'm going to pay it. They're going to backstop it. That's what you're
going to find. And that's that, to me, | think is going to be very prevalent in the next few
months. And certainly, within a year has to be the only way the economy's gonna be
changing and rebound.

27:90

Do you think there's any, is there any remedy or corrective measure we could implement

now for the fact that a couple of the partners does not have any skin in the game?

29:49

What are you what are your documents say? You have a well? Yes. Okay. Soeak to him or

her. Okay. That's the answer. Key word of what the advice is, you know, the people they
JO

JO

know the people. And if you what they suggest, | understand you the that you feel it’s
inappropriate, we're not on an equal footing. And you go to a lawyer and say, What do |
do now? How do | overcome this? And basically, basically, what | think you will hear is
what | have already talked to you about, about penalizing somebody who doesn't put in
the money, and you could rewrite the papers. You can correct the deficiency if you need
the money and one party doesn't put it in, then you say, Okay, well, if you don't put it in,
here's what happens. Nothing. Okay. Okay, good luck. Great. Thank you. You're welcome.
Okay,

30:41

this next question comes from Alina, I'm not sure if Selena is on the line. Are you on the
line? No, | don't think so. Okay, I'll, I'll ask the question for her. So | guess her question. |
know, we've been talking about a couple of confrontations already so far on this call. And
Linda's question is, do you anticipate a lot of lawsuits coming as a result of COVID-19?
And if so, on which side? Would it be tenants or property owners? Perhaps on the medical
side patients or medical personnel? And then what is the role of a force majeure clause in

these contracts? Are they necessary in the case of something like a pandemic?

31:20

Would append that? Yeah, | don't have it. | don't know that this, this basically, would
constitute a force major. Okay, the pandemic? | don't think it was, certainly it's not in what
is typically considered a force measure. And it's something outside of that, and how it's
going to be handled by they're going to be lawsuits a lot. All out. And you gotta have
tenants, everybody, so I'm going to see what they think something's wrong. You should
have had this, you should have had this, you shouldn't have done it sooner | should have
you should have called an ambulance, we should own it. And yeah, that's, that's gonna be
it's gonna be a lawyer field. Right. But how do you get paid? Right? should somebody have
tested their people at a certain point in time? Are they Darrell liquidly, didn't test the
people and didn't tell him to go home? How about the person that created some kind of
damage in the plant? Because of the fact that they were ill, and they didn’t go home? They
stayed, and they created damage. Now, the owner of the property have the right to sue
is? The answer is it's a whole new area. And it depends on the individual people and
individual case, on the facts of the case, my personal feeling is that a lot of it's going to be
thrown out that you're not going to win a lot because you you claim that the virus came in
and something happened. And as a result of that you're entitled to collect. It's, it’s not it's
like, you know, ensure it’s an act of God. At this unless you're insured, it's not covered.

Right. That's what that’s why they're writing it right insurance. That's right. They weren't
JO

JO

among yourselves and hope you did the right thing. But you can certainly keep the
expenses down as far as what they what they're what's involved. Doesn't sound like from
what you're the nature of the dispute, that there ought to be a tremendous amount of
extra expenses. | assume that you're gonna have, you're gonna try the case in Missouri.
Yeah, that's the intention. Fine. Where do you live? In California? Okay, well, it has to do of
course, this, there's situations where you could where if the property is in Missouri, that's
probably whether we're, we would have heard, but of course, you know, you have the
federal courts, which cover every jurisdiction, as long as one of the parties can have to
have the jurisdiction. Because of the properties, they're there or they live there. And then
the other the other side, if they're not happy with it can also use to make a motion to
change the venue. So it's a question you know, some of the app decide but be guided by a
lawyer, you got a good lawyer, let them go for it. Okay. Yeah. Nothing wrong of him is
definitely here for him to use co counsel. Right. To do can handle the handle the dispute in
the location doesn't have to be every lawyer does have to practice in every state. So |
think | think you're on the right track, you're doing it appropriately, but work it out with
your lawyer what you think is, is appropriate, put a some type of an outline now early,
right, there’s going to be that you can agree upon, but it’s not going to exceed X number

of hours without your knowing about it and be on top of what he's doing.

09:54

So George, would it make sense for Sep to have like you suggested a co counsel. Maybe A
more junior lawyer at a lower hourly rate, maybe leading the deposition work or
something like that.

10:07

Absolutely, absolutely. But that’s the guy that's between him and his counsel. Yeah.
counsel was asked, | don't know what his rate is. But do you did they vary depending upon
the council where they are. | mean, if they you know, as far as when it ended up, my what
my hourly rate was, as a senior partner of a law firm was, was close to $1,000 an hour. But
that's not what they pay. The people pay because | use the associates, you know, so most
of the work was done by associates has a much lower writing in my different time, but it’s
something that the client has to work out with, with the council can't give you guidance on
is working out with your counsel. And you know, something that you can lose, depending
upon what the outcome is what, what the what's on the table that you're going to collect
or not collect? If the fees if the things get too high, then you got to talk about settlement.
Right? Yeah, that's
JO

JO

JO

JO

acquired the land and entitled it for for up to this point, we raised 3.3 million equity which
we spent to acquire the land. And to pay for some fees and some of costs, we also
acquired a million in debt, which was actually issued by one of the sponsors to pay for the
soft costs. Through the latest appraisal after the entitlements been completed, and we're
working on the construction permit. Right now, the appraisal came out at 5 million. So we
have three and it's 3.3. inequity a million in debt, and the appraised value is five, we still do

have,

13:25

what's the appraised, the appraised value has very little to do with the amount of money
you got to put in it. It could be more and very rarely less, because then you won't get

loans. But if it’s an arbitrary number,

13:37

yeah, that's true. We do have to take out a little more money somewhere to help finishing
the permit costs and the soft costs before we could break ground. And we're, we're in
pursuit of the big construction loan, which is going to take about 20 million in financing
and construction financing to complete the project. Now our partners want to take out a
larger bridge loan than I'm comfortable. They want to take out about 1.8 million. But when
you say the partners, you're saying the five partners ratio? Yes, that's correct. Even though
we only need about 500,000 additional costs, prior to the big construction loan, they

want to take about take out 1.8 million a million which the sponsor

14:30

who may the debt wants to get paid out? So that's the reason Are you saying there's
1,000,000,008 basically pays off the water guy, whoever put up the million and you got
800,000 Digital tomorrow, right?

14:42

Correct. Yeah. Okay. My question actually, is that over time, | become too very, | become
very disappointed in some of the partners that are involved. And | basically don't have
any faith in this project because | don't trust them. Okay, so well who's overseeing the
project? We're always overseeing it. But we have a developer who's going to be in charge,

whatever you will oversee, who, who makes the decisions on behalf of the partnership. We
JO

JO

JO

JO

not saying normal course, by any means, but it will take its course, but this tool will be
resolved. And they'll come up with a vaccine. And there's the main thing is to have some
medications, which can can help alleviate the situation because it is a longest long

problem. And you work your way through it. | don't know what else | can add. Yeah.

06:10

Okay. Well, let's go to some questions from the attendees. This first question is from CEP

in Southern California. Sup? You're on the line?

06:19

Yep. | know. He's, he's on I'm on. See if | can find sup. Let me hear your Hey, Victor. Hey,

George, can you guys hear me? Yeah, okay, fine. Great. Yeah.

06:31

| hope you both are safe. And well, thank you for taking my question. Hey, George. So that
dropped property manager that you've been helping me out with for months, and you've
been a huge help with that. So we're some of the evidence and the evidence gathering
phase before we we follow the demand letter than the suit. | find a good attorney. But the
issue that | ran into the that property manager lives in Missouri, and my my litigator lives
in Texas, and I've had good experience with them. Where is the prime property is are
primarily in Missouri as well, where my property manager is located. Okay. So the the
attorney that | have, he's a pitbull, he’s, he’s good at what he does, but he wants to be

paid hourly. And I'm not worried about

07:22

that's how Yeah, he’s not, that’s not unusual. But that's a situation you have to resolve
with your attorney. It can be paid on an hourly basis, or it could be paid on a contingent
fee or a combination of both. Make it make a fairly reasonable hourly compensation and
a bonus if he does well. Okay, so give him both. I'm not saying give them both. It's
certainly something that you | can't tell you how to deal with your lawyer, your lawyer is a
difference. But it depends | on tell you from my own practice, there were many times that
since | was not a litigator, it never been incubated with question of the retainer. So | can't
but we did go by the hours and somebody else also, we went to collect it. But it's so it's

really a personal relationship. And it's something you and your lawyer have to resolve
JO

JO

JO

46:52

Well, the answer is, yes, you're looking for funds. First thing is on your own funds. And my
suggestion is borrow as always has been borrow as much as you can for as long as you
can, as long as you have the right to prepay. So that given what you do that there's you've
got some you got your own skin in the game, you have money you can invest. Now, that is
the that that bait, that’s the bait, really for for investors. You say, Hey, I'm in for X number
of dollars, | want you to come in for x or y or this. And then therefore, you'll be part of the
part as part of a growing partnership in which, yeah, | have a stake. And that's, that’s
really the key. As for getting part as as a discussion on Mary Kay, hey, investors can go on
with an entirely different setup, they all don't have to be the same. Some want got one
income, guaranteed income. And some say, Okay, |, rather than a guaranteed income I'll
take, I'll take a bigger piece of the pie. Well, those who get guaranteed income get less
than a pie, because they're coming first. And the ones that had the ones who end up with
the less they get | get better, better value, because | took the risk, you can do that. And
that doesn't mean there's only those two, it could be a whole group of so as you could
have a group of partners A, B, C, D, or whatever it is, and with with different terms,
depending upon the amount of security that they have, they're going to get paid to better
security have you're going to get paid, the less you get, the less in the way of income and
less in the way of future. And when you're at the end of the day, do you get to get all the
good things it gave because you took the risk. So you can find investors that are willing to

go for that have a Chinese menu that pick out what they want.

48:48

are, are certain types of investors going to go away in this pandemic? Or can | find Can |

still find any type of investor?

48:57

No, of course, they're going to go away? Yeah, they're going to go away? Because they're
going to go away? Because right? What you're doing is how it's going to be figured out,
hey, you're swimming upstream. | just got to take an investor that says, Yeah, | could, | am
willing to do that. Because the reward is going to be that much greater, everybody's going
the other way. And then | can get bargains that | couldn't get before. That's true. And
that's what you're going to have as a realtor with those that are that are fearful say, oh,
look what happened my value when I'm 40% in a short period of time, and | can do what |
want to sell, hey, that’s the time to buy. And | know it’s just a question how you negotiate

the price. But do | think it's going to change? Yes. | think definitely will change the when as
JO

JO

Die)

JO

imaginating. It was just, it was a social call, really. He just wanted to know how | was doing
and how my wife was doing. Nothing else was discussed. He had a roomful of people, of

course,

00:58

of course. So from from your perspective, which | think is a unique perspective, certainly
relative to all of us on the call, what are you seeing now that we're a month into this
global pandemic? Or at least a month into the economic downturn? What are you seeing?

Or just what's your perspective? Let's start there?

01:15

Well, the perspective is, of course, it's a it's a totally unexpected situation that nobody
really just happened. And it varies in different places with different people. And it's always,
you know, an artificially induced problem. And it has to be, it will be resolved at a point in
time and you don't who don't know exactly when the poles the economic toll is going to
be tremendous. Certainly the lives of how many people are going to be, you know, how
many desks there going to be? So it's, it's an unknown quantity. But, you know, if there

have been other situations similar to this, and | just have to live through it. Now.

02:02

You were probably a young boy in the wake of the Great Depression. Yeah. What lingering,

lingering memories Do you have from those days that you would say,

02:18

| don't really have lingering memories, because you're talking about I, my parents sent me
off to deliver my grandparents up in upstate New York. So | was, | was never really down
with them. We didn't go together. My mother, my father was a traveling salesman, my
mother was working in a store, and they made good do and whenever possible, they sent
money up to my grandparents, my grandparents had a boarding house in the mountains,
that did very well. And so | grew up, more or less sheltered. | never, never wanted any, |
never watched it something but never had an awful lot. So, you know, it's, it’s, | really can't
say | wasn't overly affected by it. Interesting. Yeah. Until the war came out. And then and

then, of course, it was a whole different issue.
jo

JO

JO

Yeah, | was certainly not not do a deal like this again. No, no, no, |

20:09

wouldn't say that. | wouldn't say that skin in the game skinning the guy should have some
that which | should be some penalty if they don't have skin in the game. And as a capital
call, they don't put up their out. Simple as that. Right. All right, that's, that's the ultimate if
they have skin in the game. Now the question is, How much? How much did they give up?
How much was that reduction is their of what they put in because they're not they're not
true partners, they're not going along with the majority. So there's some kind of penalty to
do that they lose the they lose the right to make further decisions, and they get penalized
in some way. So now somebody else puts up a loan and gets it, get to the premium
interest rate on the loan, or get some advantage, they get more equity as a result of they
put it up when somebody else didn't do what they were doing. So you actually keep the
partnership going with the partners that are on board with doing what is supposed to be
done ona long term basis, rather than penalize the ones that are not but that's basically
the way it should be. Now, there’s another scenario where situation it’s not the situation is
not terrible. By any means, though, is this what's the say that you can't, where you have a
disk deficiency, between what you're doing with your bridge loan, or you can't get the
loan that you wanted for no bank? Good, give them some kind of security. It could be a
personal guarantee from somebody who has assets, or you can get a bond to cover some,
somebody else comes up says, Okay, here, I'll put if you run, if you need it, I'll put up an
extra million, I'll put up the difference between what we think the property is worth while
it's being built and what it will be at a point in time when a construction loan is taken up

with it. Are you with me?

2202

Yes, |am with you. So you're saying basically somebody could put up the shortfall and

require a

Zee

guarantees or shortfall. guarantee the shortfall? Yeah. In other words, we assume now
that you say that the the, the bank says | think the loan to value ratio is too high. | think at
that point that | would want a million dollars more of equity than | could. Honestly now
that's that doesn't have to be cash, say, Okay, you got somebody or group, which works
and say, Okay, we're on the hook for a million dollars, you keep the property. But there's

also another million if that if you need it personally, for you fill the gap with a with a
JO

JO

JO

personal guarantee or a bond or security, there are lots of ways of doing it. But you make
the bank happy? Because they don't they think the loan is over is overvalued. What if
What if the bank is requiring all the partners to sign a personal guarantee, but there's a
great disparity and the partners in terms of assets they have? That's why they require
because then all you do is is how it’s being done is work something among the partners
that in the event that one of the partners says hey, I'm not doing it, then somebody else
comes comes forward and says, Okay, I'll take I'll read, reimburse you for your share in the
event that he did, since you called upon to pay. So it was a personal guarantee among
partners to cover some of the other partners who wish they get paid. Because you're
underwriting you're you're not a bond or aa, you know, a arrangement where you're
covering somebody else's deficiency, which may never happen. But if it does happen, this
is what takes place. not unusual. Somebody is somebody who's got a lot of money, and
watch puts it up, they get a premium for the fact that they're putting something in excess
of what the what the other parties are doing. And the alternative to lose the project
doesn't make any sense. | mean, unless that’s where you came to you. That's the
conclusion you came to it looks to me like this. It looks like it should work. Yeah, no, | don't

the numbers for the numbers that you gave, right? No,

24:15

| don't think we're at the risk of losing the project. It seems to me the amount of loan they
want to take out. The other partners loan is not due yet. The part it's due in October, and
by then we should be able to do a larger construction loan because our permit should be

ready.

24:39

What happens? What happens if you don't pay departments loan? Nothing. Cool. Don't
pay. Right. But the majority wants to take out a larger loan and when you take out a
larger loan, you pay him out but meanwhile up until that time, you just don't. There's
nothing wrong with that doing. It’s not like the bank is going to foreclose because they
don't have any partners. I've already gone into Put in the money, watch it get it back. The
answer is no, you can't get it back now, because it’s not appropriate. And | understand it
will create dissension among the ranks. But you've already got that great, big thing
differently. Right.

25:14

Sonia, question for you. How much money would it take right now to complete the
Olles

PC+-+April+2020+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

q@ Thu, 9/910:05AM @ 54:21

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, money, partners, lawyer, employee, people, pay, point, situation, loan, george, tenants,

agreement, construction loan, penalty, happen, parties, deficiency, problem, landlord

SPEAKERS

Robert

© Robert 00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

O ;

A 00:06
Hello. Good evening, George. Good evening. | guess it’s a good evening with all things
going on. Yes, indeed. Alright. Well welcome, everyone.

O :

A 00:14

Welcome to our monthly mastermind with Mr. George Ross. There's so much to talk about
tonight. And just like last month, we're living in unprecedented times. It’s amazing to me
how much the world has changed in just a matter of weeks. So, as always, George, great
to have you here. And let's start with what's in the news. What's not in the news? Exactly,

exactly. | know, you spoke with the president a couple of weeks ago, and

00:46

JO
JO

JO

sure it's interesting. A lot of the places would have business interruption insurance, or if
they didn't pick it up. And you'd say, well, that's what you should have had, I'm not going
to underwrite the fact that you didn't have business interruption insurance. And as a
result, I'm liable. You're gonna look for liability all over, but it's gonna happen as to how
successful we'll be Who knows? Right, but | wouldn't | wouldn't waste time thinking about
it until this similar situation arises, and | wouldn't, | wouldn't, | wouldn't think about it
instead, somewhat. At some way, somehow, if the situation gets to be totally out of hand,
you got to have intervention by the by the government. And if they felt you can’t make it,

you can't win a lawsuit based on necessity?

33:46

Well, let's look at a very specific example. So | own a commercial property, where one of
the tenants there they were forced to close down because of the the mandated shutdown
by the government. They said their revenue went to zero, which it did. And they're saying
on that basis, they they don't have the funds to pay the rent. Now, they they signed a
commercial triple net lease, with personal guarantees, but it's not like if | kick them out,

I'm going to get someone else to come in there. Joe, What's your point? Are they still liable
for the background? Are they off the hook

34:23

or they're still liable for the background already collected in a different story with a libel
did not released by virtue of the the fact that they had the virus, cause they certainly
caused them to stop business where they could say causes a stoppage or change that.

No, it’s not the it’s not it’s no different than Are they still liable in the event of a hurricane?
Yeah. If you made an agreement to lease space, and pay a certain rent and neither valid,
you're not paying it because of some kind Have an act of God, that doesn't really issue
any more than not having the funds. So bankruptcy is going to release that the the parties
are going to make some adjustments. As Okay, you pay me over a period of time and I'll
go, you don't have to pay me now You pay me some interest. So the work something out
with a view not to lose the tenants. That's what happened. That's that's typical. That's not
unusual. You have this happens in many cities when the times change, and now somebody
has got | got a big rent can't afford to buy a big rent. So what do they do? The landlord
has no choice. Either you have a vacant store with no income, or you have a store with a
tenant who's been there who can't afford to pay your number. So what do you do you
have to adjust the rent one way or another? But that's typical real estate. Okay, perfect.
And yeah, what happens the other way, when the market changes at that point, and now
you find out you got a tenant, and they're paying $5,000, in the stores where they $1,000,
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

jo

11:02

good advice, because I'd like to figure out a way to work it out with him. Didn't have to
find a different lawyer. | feel good with him being on the case. Yeah. That's very clever with

the bonus structure. Yeah.

11:12

And then let's see what happened, say, let them get together with EA. Have you have you
sued the other side yet or not?

11:18

Not yet. No. We were planning to until COVID-19 happens.

11:22

Okay, well, the thing thing is, is | would say sue the other side, may gay they have your
lawyer may got a complaint, which basically reached with all kinds of bad things, like
malfeasance is lack of fiduciary if | do share relationship, not acting properly, sort of in the
paper sounds as when it puts in how much you get put in a bit. 11, put it a big number. And
then see what happens when the other side looks at it. doesn't mean you're going to get it
but put it in. Don't go through exactly what your what's your what's owed. Okay. Very

good. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Good luck. Thank you.

12:01

Okay. Next question is from Sonia. Sonia. Are you on the line? In press star six to unmute.

12:08

Okay, here | am. Very good. Hello. All right. Okay, how are you doing? Well, thanks.
quietness as it is, and everywhere else in the world? Absolutely. | have a burning question

for you. | was looking forward to this.

12:29

So we are in a partnership to develop an assisted living facility here in California, we have
JO

JO

JO

JO

entitlement process? Like, have you? If you look at the use of funds of that 800,000? Do

you need all of that entitlement?

25:27

No, we do not. There's a little bit of buffer in that number. But the the actual number that

we needed more like 500,000 square to complete the entitlement process.

25:41

That's good. And | think the fact that you talk in assisted living facility, | think that's great.
Or lam very much in demand.

25:50

Yes, but the concern is, because we're in this environment that we're in, in a few months,
when we are ready to move forward, we will be having difficulty obtaining a construction
or construction financing, because of various criteria that we may not meet, such as the
developers track record. And any any such reasons we're in very precarious and credit

environment, the way | see it. So

26:24

| hear what you're saying, | hear what you're saying. But | don't think it's going to be a
precarious credit, credit environment, | think the banks have a lot of money, they have a
lot of money, a bottle, and they want to put it out. So maybe some type of a guarantee
along the way, maybe a government guarantee or otherwise. But it's not quite they want
to make loans. They don't want to sit on the money. If you look at the banks, how much
what was what what did they pay you, if you for money to leave in the bank 1%, less than
1%, | can't make money on on that they need, they need to make loans. And they will want
to put it want to put it out. And | do think if you're going to find it to be some type along
the way, have some type of governmental involvement, at least to back up the
deficiencies. Because the government, whoever it is, is going to want these things built.
They're going to want the certainly assisted living facilities. And they need the
construction, the cost and the need that going and hiring people wish to make money.
And so it's to keep the economy started and keep it going, you're going to find a lot of

governmental help.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

we can | can,

15:19

you know, okay. | assume? Or can you do what you want without the partners? Because

they are they have to know, you can't know, everybody. Basically, the partners basically
have to decide where it's going to go from here. My right, correct. So there are five votes
that yes, yeah. And we all have to vote on that on what happens go to major decision

what happens now if one person says no, it's an impasse is Why?

15:46

Well, actually, | think majority rule. So if one partner says no, then the then the decision of

the three partners have supersede supersedes, and then it progresses that way.

15:58

Okay, | hear you. But there's more for what happens if one of the partners doesn't go

along with it, and he doesn't want to put up any money. What happens

16:06

with if there is a capital call, and there's no putting up of money? | guess they can't do
anything. The rest of partners can't do anything about that. If it's just matter of making a
business decision, and three partners majority wants certain direction to move to go on

certain direction, then that could happen and the the person who votes no has no say,

16:30

Okay, okay, | hear you it there's a there's a defect in the original documentation, which I'm
going to tell you tell you about. And that is that the in the event where there's a capital
call, and the partners or majority of them decide there is a capital call, there should be
some penalty if the if the other party doesn't go along with it. Now you can weaken the
weekend, the position, and you can also put up the money, but you get a bigger share.
Gotta be some penalty if you don't go along with what the majority think is going to be
should be done. And that but that's in the original documents, which was obviously too
late, because you're well beyond that. But you can know that, you know that for future

reference, in the event that you have one of these partnerships, one of those kind of what
JO

JO

JO

jo

03:03

Yeah, of course, of course. So | mean, it's clear that, you know, the White House, the
Congress and the Federal Reserve, in particular, are doing everything that they can, or at
least they're doing an awful lot to help mitigate the economic impact of businesses, to

some industries, like Yeah, absolutely.

03:21

Yeah. But it's not. | think they're all all of those things. And | think the latter of those
industries will rebound. Basically, when, when the public is on board says, let's do it, and
they'll go to places, they'll start buying more things, and they can get away from this
isolation situation. But realistically, you know, a lot of these companies are very good
shape. | mean, over the past few years, they've been make a pot full of money. So now,
now they have a downturn, the artificially downturn, but nevertheless, they're so sitting on
a pot of a lot of money. So it shouldn't, it shouldn't be a question that they can't survive.
They're industries which are gonna have big problems and will have big problems
because of the human nature of people don't want to take a cruise. They don't want to go
ona Arab airplane unless they have to, you know, quite a while to get the confidence
back in the general public. And that depends upon either a, getting a vaccine or some
type of treatment, which will effectively reduce it. The interesting part is this is not there,
the fatalities in relationship to the amount of illnesses is not high. It’s not. But

nevertheless, it's a lot of people dying.

04:42

Absolutely. Absolutely. | think. | think Governor Cuomo stated that there were as many

deaths in three days over COVID-19 as an entire year of the flu.

04:56

That's true, whether it's the nature of the illness, the HPV illnesses is a different type of
illness. And that those statistics are a little bit misleading because the deaths are in the
people, either they have a pre pre existing condition or they're on yours. In other words,
it's the weak, the weak ones, which are dying as a result of the illness, which otherwise
sounds, you know, cavalier about it by any means. But that’s what it is. And it’s not
generally the public, it’s the you look at it that this it’s not, it’s not there. Most people have
it don’t even know they have it. Those ones that do have some symptoms. Usually they

grow out of it in a period of time. And it's, it's something that it will take its course, and I'm
_)O

_)O

JO

going to make a lot of money for my company and the company's going around and
money for the employer. And they Everything is fine, write it down. What happened write it
down, because everyone is happy? No, they're all thinking great things. It’s only later on
when somebody does something wrong. And if you don't have a remedy, you got a
problem. So it's doing what should be done in an appropriate early fashion, which was
good gonna be worth a tremendous amount at a later point in time when the shit hits the
fan, so to speak. But don't be Don't be afraid get Yeah, | would get a restrictive restrictive
covenants for a period of time. And why I'm penalties reverse. enforcing that or seeming
to enforce that is almost as good as forcing enforcing it. So now, if you go after an
employee who stole stole a lead, and your other employees hear about it, they’re not

going to do it. That's exactly. So it's a preventive measure.

43:41

So Georgia in the absence of liquidated damages clause, the only remedy then is to sue

for damages, correct?

43:47

Correct. And liquidated damages are going to be hard to win. What are the liquidated
damages are? What do you how do you fix it? What is a certain times times a lead? |
mean, it was $1 amount? | don't know, whatever it is? So it’s hard you answer is that's that's
tough. Because it really depends on what he stole, or what leads what the lead was. But
because it can be creative voice can be. It can be creative and do anything to work. The
key is to do it in the formative stages of the relationship, when both parties will agree to
everything because there's nothing on the table. They expect that they're both going to
be honorable, and it’s going to work out that the employee is going to make a lot of
money. And the employer is going to be happy because | got an employee who is doing
everything on behalf of my company that's in the form of space. It's only later on when
somebody steals or does something different that you have a different agreement. And

now it's too late to get a new set of papers.

44:45

Makes perfect sense. Yep. | was going to go to my sales people and have them reach out
to their prospects. offering the prospects a promotion like explain to him there's a breach
in security. We dismissed this employee his carpentry wasn't good. He went to show up on

time. If we're sorry about that, if you buy from Empire and you give us some kind of
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

45:03

support again, that's a different question. Now. Yeah, you're opening a whole new can of
worms at that point, you throw rocks at an employee, that's a problem. Because the poor
the employees, but it's all Yeah, but the truth is the employer didn’t do this. He didn't do
this. He cheated. He didn't get didn't live up to the car. Yeah, you starting a whole
different dispute? No, it happens. There are some employees, we're going to do it. But on
the overall scheme of things, it’s part of the cost of doing business.

A5‘3S

Because the new just going out there a disgruntled employee, and that's just gonna
complicate your life.

45:38

Correct. And you got other things to do besides end up with litigation with an employee,
there's a disgruntled employee. But the main thing is at that point, if you if you do this, and
you have it and you go after it, is you'll get the rest of your employees in line. They're not
going to do it. And that's partly why so you got one, one bad employee, but the rest of
them are not going to follow suit, that nothing happened even though you knew about it
this time you went after him, and therefore, they're not going to do it, which is what you're

really trying to establish. That's correct. Thank you. You're welcome.

46:11

Okay, next, we've got Patrick Patrick young line.

46:15

lam. Right. Hi, George. Hi. So this is more of a general question. But I'm sure that the
events that are going to unfold are going to create a lot of opportunities in the next few
months. Buffett says that you should always be greedy when others are fearful. And |
intend to invest as much as possible when LEDs in the streets. But eventually, I'm going to
run out of my own capital and | want to raise some funds. So in your opinion, in these
times, will | be able to raise capital? And if so, should | be looking at? Where should | be

looking for funds in these times?
JO

JO

JO

JO

40:04

Thank you so much for the opportunity, Victor. On George. | recently had a former
subcontractor and project manager, go through our database and start prospecting or
leads directly off in them 10% off our residential construction services. We're keep
building. So yeah, so my biggest thing is obviously the legal fees and being able to collect
the funds might not be worth it. Yeo. More so enforcing precedents amongst other

employees be like guys, like you can't steal from the company.

40:44

what's the what's the what's your point? | understand where you're coming from? What do

you what what do you want to correct?

40:52

So pretty much the stole from us, it's not worth me legally going out. What

40:56

do you mean is What do you mean, they stole from you? They stole a lead? Is that what
you're saying? Or did they steal money? They stole lead? Okay, fine. So Where? Where?
Where? What kind of an agreement? Did you hit? Did you have them signed when you
were hired them on? nonsolicitation? So you got a non solicitation? Yeah, good. They sign
it? And what are the penalties if they solicit? There wasn't documented as part of the
agreement? Okay, well, that's next time you get a lawyer that documents is perfectly okay.
| mean, he put in place some type of penalties that are involved are basically you have to
put in something he did, what you put in is a period a restrictive clause, which lasts for a
reasonable period of time. If it lasts forever, the question throw it out. But if it last percent
a year, two years, that’s fine. And if the penalty is could be set forth an agreement, as a
result on whatever whatever money they would make on the lead that they stole from
you, they have to give you back, that's the penalty, then it could be two or three times
that you got to do because you did something wrong, you stole from me in not only make
me whole, you're entitled to some kind of a penalty, if you put it in new agreements, the
courts will uphold it. And more important, you will find out that the parties are not going
to do it. If they know that you will enforce these agreements. But that's, that's to be done
pre milk. The what I'm getting, and this is not unusual, is there's so much that has to be
done, or should be done in the formative stages of relationship. And that's an employee

employer, then both of them are happy at the time because they think good things, I'm
