JO

JO

JO

Okay, so why would you advise that because the entity could be good Ladies,

45:00

what entity could have liabilities it has as liabilities, but what is your going to have it if the
entity has liabilities at this the if in fact, the leasing to sue you have a problem and they
they can see is if you if the entity transit sells it to a new entity which has no liability, then
you have a problem because of the capital gains. Right. Am | right? For Okay, so
therefore, you good. But But meanwhile Why can't you find out what what what liabilities
the entity has? That shouldn't be difficult? When | say difficult, it'll take you by

45:41

the thinking the thinking is that if if Matt is on title for 10%, as a tenant in common
structure, not Matt, maybe Matt's entity is on title, then even though he has a minority

interest, he is signatures required for any transaction. So he has indirect because

46:01

that would be the same thing. Whether it assuming that you could build in that same the
same protection. If he if he buys 10% of the stock? You could Yes, the same thing doesn't
make any difference? You could do that? Yes, yeah, he buys 10% of the stock. So my
feeling is without getting into a great deal of detail. keep it as simple as possible. If it's
owned in one entity without having tenants in common, then it’s it’s easy to dispose of or
handle that paperwork, it’s necessary for what doesn't mean entity rather than tenancy in
common. When you got tenants in common, what happens is the other tenant goes, dies.
Hello? Yeah. Yeah. What do you do now with a tenancy in common? Now, obviously,
there's the hinge. Yeah. So you don't want to go to the edge, you'd like to keep it in the
sink, you can you can provide all the protection that you want. And you certainly need
protection in a in documentation, and what you need there is a good lawyer. And that can
be done, then | would say they keep it as simple as possible. Now you can get as far as
potential liabilities in the in the entity, the owning entity. Now, you get representations, in
addition that you probably have accountants, and you get to do you do all the due
diligence necessary to satisfy yourself, that there's no liability in the existing entity that
you're not ready to undertake. Now, and if there is one at that point, they will quit this is
there's live somebody the judgment there of 30,000, whatever, you got to take care of
that. But there’s something that you can dispose of by keeping but still buying into the
entity.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

47:42

What does happen indemnity agreement cover that off?

47:45

Sure, sure. Absolutely. It has to it has to be covered. But you're keeping it simple, because
you're working with the existing entity, and the entity already owns the property. So you
don't have a problem. You're not you're not making a new conveyance, which could
create all kinds of tax liabilities, all you're doing is selling your share of an operating
Corporation, and you're setting up a new situation fine, his videos going forward. Here's
how we handle the corporation lose, here's how you make decisions is a big loans. And so
so you have now an operating agreement, covering the cooperation or the owning entity,

which says this is how we're going to operate from now on. That works.

48:24

It makes sense. So you'll see that

48:26

working, he's got to convince them at alll.

48:29

Okay, does that work? It works. | do. Yeah, | said, you don't gain really put this way you
don't gain anything. If this. If you have, you don't gain anything, by having a tenancy in
common, you lose something, you lose certain amount of flexibility. Because now if you
have a tenancy and tenancy in common, the only way that it can be done is the both
tenants have to agree to the same thing. If you have an operating company that owns it,
you don't need it, whoever controls that entity, you can you will basically have the right to
say anything. So it's a question of setting up setting up papers and so forth, which give
you as putting in the new party coming in put money, the control over the disposition of
the property, how it sells how shows sold, developed, what they can do or can't do without

you.

49:20
JO

JO

JO

_)O

_)O

JO

Die)

38:12

Thanks. Fantastic. Okay. Next, we've got a meaty question from Patrick and Matt. And

then we're gonna go to So Matt, are you on the line are Patrick?

38:26

Good evening, guys. How are you? Alright, we are. Yes, yep. Good. Okay, well, we've been
contacted by distressed seller with a commercial property in a really good location. It's
going to make a great mixed use developer project. But they're on the brink of losing the

property to the bank. doodler lawyer embezzling funds

38:47

that way, but when you say the lawyer betaling funds did mean you got to lose the bank.

So that means that you don't have enough money to pay the bank loan, | assume

38:55

in that kind of a way like he did. The list is too long for him to call us and | happened with
this property.

39.02

No, no. But I'm basically saying is go here. | assume I've tried just to get to the the basis of
where the problem is. The problem is, is you got a bank that's about to foreclose his loan.
Am | right on that? By November 1? Okay. Okay. So by November 1, unless somebody

comes up with a lot of money, the bank is going to foreclose,

39:22

if they closed, foreclosed. Go do a power of sale November 1. Oh, okay. So

39:27

that means that they've started. Yep. That means at that point that they started
proceedings to foreclose, and now you're up to the point where if you don't come up with

somebody that's come up with money, they're going to put up, they're going to sell it and
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

shoes, so would you. Would you use that as leverage to negotiate anything?

55:18

Okay, has anything you got in the way of leverage? Okay, we're basically through for
tonight, right? Yes. Okay.

Du:25

Thank you very much. Okay. But what

55:27

you do is this point where it’s gonna carry over bring it on an update on the next gun, the

next call that we have. So something something changes in the interim. We'll

55:36

take it up then. Okay, great advice. Thank you very much.

55:39

Okay. Take care.

55:40

Perfect. Thanks. Have a good night, everyone.

55:46

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

19:45

Yeah, something like that. Or I'll give you a good this. I'll pay it over a longer period of
time. Yes, there's the fact that the owner is willing to excepted a change your haircut, call
it what you like of 200 and 1000 200,000 right away, as indicates that there’s more room.
And | wouldn't say room more room and just the basic knowledge, but certainly you can
figure out how you're going to pay it when you're going to pay it what the interest rate is,
and get better, better terms, which make it more attractive from a purchaser standpoint.
And | think the seller goes along with it, because obviously, he doesn't have too many

choices. | love that.

20:23

Okay. Okay. Next question comes from CS here, you're on the line. You can press star six

to unmute. Let me see. | think this is your here. See, are you there?

20535

Hi, George.

20:36

Hi, how are you?

20:38

gonna do? So | got this property downtown, I've had it for about two or three years. It's a
commercial condo, high condo fees, no windows, it's a pretty challenging asset to sell. |
had one agent work on it. And | think after six to eight months, nine months, he got
discouraged. And he was kind of dragging his feet with the leads, | let them go. | heard a
second agent. And he's also fumbling and bumbling with right now is what kind of
recourse Do | have with these agents, when in all fairness, to them, it's a challenging file.
But at the same time, if they're not meeting my expectations, and as a small commercial
real estate community in the city, | don't want to go ahead and put out a bad impression

of myself for the property. By turning agents one after another,

21:31
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

price? And | had a hell of a you know, so if you didn't go out with three other people find
out what the average What the What comes back. So if he comes back Now, suppose you
get three bids. One is a half 1,000,001 is 700,000, or one is 800,000. Now you go back to
the to the 500 says, hey, how can you do it for 500? Why is it? What are you doing this
different? | got other visits upon war, why are you better? Well, | needed a job, you'll find
out. I'm not saying be necessarily get the truth. But you'll find out right now or you do the
other one, so that you like the guy who's coming in at 600,000. And you say to him, Well,
hey, | got you're coming in at 600,000. | got somebody else offer five, what do you what

are you doing? This makes it worth another 100? grand? It gives some kind of an answer.

37:14

| gotcha.

alo

So you would in fact, you know, because these structures I'm doing as storage are very
easy. So the company pitches themselves as a turnkey solution designed for you know,

less than an architect would build it. You know,

37-30

| understand what you're saying, Don't design it, you're not going to say you they design it.
At this point, you're not going to save money. If you had somebody else design it. An
individual designer, they're going to be is what they design they've already got in mind,
why they want to design it that way and what what they think prot what they think the
profit is, if you accept their design criteria have been a step further where you want to be
you what you are the right product at the right price correct. And you don't want to do

control. So you have more control which you have, the better it is.

38:06

| agree on a percent. Thank you, Georgia.

38:10

Go do it. Okay, good luck.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

and lenders are going to look at look at the tenant. And they will look at it and say, how
do we value it now? Generally speaking, then I've got to go into tremendous detail to say
that you while you're leasing space out at 40 to $40 a square foot when you totally were
$30. They'll look at the lease with the $40 at this point, and they'll take it okay, if the entity
is solid enough to pay the pay that rent? How he will make Yeah, yes.

29:13

Yeah, | guess. So. So there's that and the other. The other thing that you said there, which |
think is is spot on, and maybe we haven't fully connected the dots yet, the earnings
multiple that you'll get for the operating business might be three times earnings for the

food and beverage business. But if you're at a 5% cap rate, now you're 20 times earnings.

29:34

You got a job right on that's exactly correct. And, and you have a much you have a
saleable entity, available real estate subject with with a beverage lease in place, whoever
has example, is far that's a saleable entity. However, the operating very beverage business
depends on the business itself and and what the problems are. Are there the real estate
loans be there always and always have rent the booth? The beverage business at this
point depends on the beverage what what the economy is, it's much more hazardous and
you're right, the valuation of a operating business is a lot less than the value of a real

estate transaction.

30:17

That's very powerful. That's very powerful. Yep. Fantastic. Okay. Let's go next to Hayden.
Hayden. Are you on the line?

30:28

lam. How's it going? Today, George?

20:30

qualify with me? We're still where you how you doing in Fort Mars?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

That's basically kind of a contract with only 110 percent. Sorry, we might only own 10% of

the shares, but we have 50% or 51% of the decision making

49:31

absolutely or 100% of the decisions decision making or not going at this with it that you
have the 100% veto. Because you're providing the paperwork as this as yet even though
you own a minority interest. Certain things can't be done without the approval of minority
interest, which is you and that's putting on a new mortgage, whatever it is, you put all
kinds of restrictions can't be solved but it is doable. It's easy. | It’s easy, a good set a good
set of documents, which could be prepared by a lawyer will give you all the protection
that you need. And it also will give the the seller, the existing seller, a lot better feeling that
they're not getting either something overly complex, it's relatively easy. And if you want to
work within which you certainly should, and that you're, you're acting in a friendly manner,

which you are. So without making it too complex.

50:31

There's answers | guess, the first question. First part of the first part of the questions.

50:38

So So Matt, what I'm gonna suggest | want to get to seps question as well. So I'm
wondering if we can if we can cap it there. So that Yeah, we give SAP a couple of minutes,

because he's got a, an important question as well. Yeah. Okay.

50:52

The other question for in a few months from now.

50:55

Okay. Well, that. That was informative. Thank you. Okay. So if it doesn’t work, or if

something comes up in the next one, that will bring it on the next call.

51:06
JO

JO

30:34

Man, I'm scoring like 2500 people stuff. So you know, | got a lot, a lot of balls to juggle. |
got a problem or not a problem. But a question you think you can help me out? I'll try.
Okay, so, so Fort Myers project is going along? Fantastic. | recently received a quote from
a supplier for a turnkey design and build contract, and this is on the outside canopy
structures. Question is really more from a safety point of view. If | hand over the entire
design and build to a single company, I’m concerned about losing the quality of what's
delivered because they're overseeing everything, wouldn't be safer to have the design
work done by someone separate from who's actually going to be building and supplying
everything else, so that | can maintain control the specifications, and then | might spend

more money, but is it worth it? some of your thoughts on that?

31:28

Yeah, | think you're right. I, I've always loved those a lot of | would shy away every time |
get someone to give because a fixed price contract to build something out as fixed price. |
look at that very, very quizzical about that. Because they build in at that point, they're
building in a profit? No question. What happens if the costs go out of bounds and the
profit is not there, they'll figure out how to cut the cost to maintain the profit, which is
what you're concerned that you will get less in the way of actual performance when you
bought in for all you thought you were going to get. So in my experience, in my
experience, basically is that get involved with a whoever's going to build it, pay him a fee,
but and then get all the subs or the contracts that usually you should work on. Pay him a
certain fee for doing the whole the supervision, but not directly involved, that he's going
to underwrite the total cost of construction of the finished job. Sure, that's your main
hazard is a hazard. And I've seen that too many times. Because it’s, what they've figured
on is yes, this is great. And I'm going to make a how much profit there and | built in | built
in a contingency fee, the problem comes up is if in fact, circumstances such as
continuously he goes down or disappears, they're going to figure out how to screw you to
make up the contingency fee, and you'll never see it. Yeah, when | say, | get it worse, and
you're going to have shoddy work, or you're going to have something to do with where
they were they hired the lowest bidder, and it just didn’t work out. So if you kept the main,
what you have to do to do is maintain some control over the bidding of whatever work
that they're doing. But you also have somebody as a supervisor, that's going to do the
work, who's going to do all of the purchasing and the the involved and get the subs
together. So you have somebody who is going to do steel work fine, who gets you the
contracts on steel work, and to go into the marketplace. And then but you should see the
contracts, which one you're going to take, which one is the best and not necessarily the

lowest, and have control over the subs. So if you have control over the subs and one sub
JO

JO

JO

JO

It's a different product and it’s a different it The problem is a problem. There are making

more so than a problem with the market per se.

10:03

That's correct. That's correct. And part of the problem that SoftBank will have is that it's
hard to, it's hard to pin down the problem. All you know is, hey, we're putting an X that we
made this lease for X number dollars is the income we get, here's we put it and we were
losing, we're losing so much so much money. And but somebody's going to say, Well, how
do | buy it? How do | know that? It's, it's going to be good. So there's a good opportunity
here for a fire sale in some some areas, which could work well, what do you got the same
same risk with the fact that it's being a fire sale? Right, and | think you're going to see it in
a lot of areas. And it varies city by city could vary block by block, building by building?
Yeah. So interesting concept, but | wouldn't put a lot of money, | wouldn't put any money
here for me at this point. And | would hesitate for money, or people have to put money.
However, if in fact, they are taking over a lease in a specific building for a specific space
ona very attractive basis. So they're getting, they're basically paying very little for it, or
they pay it on a basis where we'll pay you out of the profits that we get, and we'll run it
and we'll take it off your hands. There’s good possibility there. Because you're you don't
have the basic exposure to go in and buy it for a lot of cash doesn't make any sense to me

at all.

11:30

Yeah, | agree with that. So maybe going in and saying going to the landlord, look, we
works in a world of hurt. Let's negotiate new lease terms, we'll take it over a wall, run it,

you'll make a profit. Here the new terms are you in?

11:44

Yeah, but there's nothing which says, | don't know, at this point, we always take a land
take a landlord, when he makes one of these 10 year leases, would we work? Who's on the
lease? What's the quick way of what is that? What is the entity? know how much is cash in
the entity? Is that tenant?

12:04

Exactly there, their recourse is very limited.
JO

_)O

JO

We'll do appreciate it. Okay. Thank you.

51:10

Alright, Sup? Yeah. Hey, can you guys hear me? Yes,

91:14

| can hear?

51:16

Yeah. Appreciate taking the question. I'll do my best to summarize it. So | had to look over
property manager, property management company recently. And they're, they're really
upset about it. We have a new company in place, new management company, they're
doing much better job. But the old company is still managing two of the last properties. So
we've transitioned everything except two properties. And the reason I'm the old company
is managing those twos, because they're still performing renovations. So they're, they're
the property manager, and also the general contractor. Okay. The agreement that | have
with that old manager is that they get paid 50%, up front and 50%. And the work is
completed. They have to renovations way behind schedule. They've had contractors walk
off the jaws multiple times. So by the contract, | don't know that I'm any money. Well, the
old management company is now withholding rents, and it's pulling about $75,000.
They're withholding rents from one of my LLCs because this other LLC has these two
renovations. So it's like they're withholding rents from Company A because Company B
has a pending renovation project. Yeah, the company that they're holding rents on, it’s got
a commercial loan, it's a $2 million commercial loan. And that lender has very strict
language when when we did the refinance, they actually made the whole management
from the sign on assignment of management agreement. This is last year. And it
specifically forbids the old property manager from withholding rents. And my hunch is
that they, they signed it, and they forgot that they, they forgot about the agreement. So
the agreement, that assignment of management agreement, | have that as a tool, but |
had an attorney review it and he said it gives my lender grounds to sue the property
manager. But if my lender is alerted about it, then it puts me into default. So even though
I've never missed the mortgage payment, though, they consider this as, you know, a
violation of the of the terms of the loan agreement. So my attorney is suggesting I've

worked things out with the property manager before bringing it up to my lender.
JO

JO

jo

JO

14:40

Okay, well, this next question is from Brad and Brad is not on the phone. He's actually in
Baltimore at a meeting and he has a seven unit apartment building under contract in
Baltimore. It needs a substantial amount of work, new electrical, potentially, potentially

spring fleurs

15:02

has he bid it out?

15:04

They're in the process of doing that. Okay, who else is doing that? Now they the seller was
asking 550 for the seven gap building, and they now appears have an accepted offer or
soon to be accepted offer at 350. The seller did not counter, which leaves them wondering,
are they possibly paying too much? Even at 350? Now they're good. Yeah, they've got a
conditional period in the contract. So they complete their due diligence, and there's
always the possibility of further negotiation. What are your thoughts on the first question,

you know, did they pay too much? And what how they answered that question,

15:40

not a question of pain, a pain too much. Is it? Whatever the whatever the number is, if it
makes sense and is listening to what we're talking about here, looks like it makes sense.
And so it's a fair price don't get there's no purpose in negotiating further if you dropped
the price down from 350 to 300. Does it make any difference? No. Not substantial growth?
No, there Yeah, but you're safe. But the growth or the real purchaser uses this as a good
potential. Once the property has been redeveloped and brought up to code and
everything, then if the model which which you work with the purchaser works out, says,
here's what it is, here's what's going to cost me here's how long it’s going to take me to
get there. And this is what's my end result? If it works, and it works at 350. Fine, should it
work less? No. In other words, it’s not, it's not worth it to, you're not there for the big you
got it for the biggest bargain, the bargain basically comes out as 350 a fair price, if | put in
the 350, maybe | put it in on terms, or | put it into this, that it’s not all at one time. And |
can build it out at my convenience, or | build it out now. And having built out and bringing
it up to code means it is worth a lot to get up to look at the model, the big of the financing
that goes on and say okay, here, I'm buying it, it's 350 watts, and how much is it going to

cost me to bring it to do the refurbishing? And what do | get after I've refurbished it? You
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

52-51

So we can if they put this way, if you can work it out with the property manager by Okay,
you have obviously a direct, you'd have a very successful lawsuit against the property
manager. But that may not be the way that you want to go short, right? They don't have
the right to do what they're doing. That's illegal. You can't withhold, we can't withhold
money from one entity, because of a problem on another read that data is not concerned
with it. It just that’s the blood, the blood question becomes a messy lawsuit. But my feeling
would be what | would suggest is yes, you speak to the property manager, see if you can
work things out. If you can't, then what you do is you go back to the bank, you nicely
explained to them what the problem what what the situation is, and say good once they
take over the property management Under the agreement, which they have the right to
do. At that point, you will tell you you'll get a new property management agreement with

a new property management company, which could be you or some other entity.

54:30

Have a question for you, sir. In your in dislocation, our property managers required to be

licensed real estate brokers.

94:41

That's a good question. | | don’t know if the required but | know that the property

manager is a licensed broker.

94:47

Because there could be there could be a complaint issued against the licensing with the
licensing agency that would put their entire business at risk, because they're in violation of

their fiduciary responsibilities a broker? Absolutely. Right.

55:02
Okay.

55:04

Is Is that an avenue? That is an avenue | could pursue. | mean, well, if you guys were in my
JO

JO

JO

in fact, it was a it was a far if it was a foreign country, a foreign company at that point, or
if we're net a United States company wouldn't have it happening. Right? The fact is that
the SoftBank at that point got their money from the, the sheets or, or other oil money, or
from all different places, and they're looking for, to put it put it somewhere that has a
tremendous upside. And we both had a tremendous upside. It also has a tremendous
downside. The tremendous downside is it's a monster to keep going to keep going. And to
run it. | mean, why are they paying paying the guy who the guy doing so much to get out
of it? Oh, yeah, totally. | mean, the guys that he probably paying billions or two to get out
of it, and they're paying me huge numbers, because he had controlled the stock. So the
the idea was good. If you control the stock and somebody thinks is good, you make a
make a fortune. This is what happens with many of the startup companies, they have the
idea, and somebody buys it out. So you got Google advisor gets involved and buys
Instagram and a whole bunch of other and whoever set up the company did really great.
Now, what does it do in the future? That's a question. That's to be seen. Right? Right.
Because the competition is fierce, is fierce, and you're not giving them anything that they
can't get somewhere else. except you're making it if you make it easier, it's | would say
make it easy. Yeah, this is we're so flexible. We'll give you our 500 feet, we'll give you five
of the 1000 feet, you want to our international quality capability. What do you what do

you want? So it's, it's like a supermarket for office space,

08:59

wondering if there's an opportunity to go in and see if SoftBank would be willing to divest
of certain assets at a price not necessarily a pure fire sale price, but something that would
be attractive to a buyer to the answer. Yes. That's where I'm wondering if the opportunity

exists, the answer

09:14

is yes. The opportunity but if in fact, it is possible is to separate out on an individual basis
certain of the the the office space which we work has taken and it's that requires a lot of a
lot of transformation which requires it would it's volatile, people going in and out the
market is changing. The city is changing, and it's a loser. And not they don't want to
perpetuate it as illusions they will The best thing is is with it. Why don't we sell it great. Is
this any different than selling property in the inner city or an area that’s gone South? No,

it's no different. No different except it's a different product.

09:57
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

what you're telling me at this point, unless somebody comes up with the money, it's going
to get sold in November, correct? Yes. Right. And that's it. That's the way that's gonna
happen. Okay, | got you. Go ahead. What's next? You're going to put you put up the

money or some some part of the money. What's the what, who owns the property? Now?

44:07

What is the entity? It's an entity that's owned by the current owner?

44°11

Okay, it's an entity. What did we say? It’s an entity? What is it a limited liability company?

44:19

What is a corporation? Okay, it's a corporation.

44:21

So it’s a corporation owned by the owner a which is 100%. Owner. Correct? Right. And
now at that point, you're coming in, and you're not going to buy some of the some of that
interest. So you got to put in money at that point, and you're going to get it 10% 20% or
whatever, some, some percentage of the ownership that you're going to satisfy, in your
own mind is sufficient for you to put in the capital, whatever capital you're putting in, am |
right?

44:46

Correct. And it'll probably be a tenant in common structure as opposed to

44:50

another tenant to common structure. Don't get me just tenant to common structure,

you're going to buy part of the entity.

44:56
JO

costs. They've been spending $3 for every dollar in revenue, when now that their world is
crumbling a little bit with their new owner SoftBank, they're going to obviously try and
restore profitability, do you see any opportunities that might exist in the office market, be
it in New York or any other major markets, where we where we work has a significant

presence?

01:58

| always say you mean it. The other the concept that we reward concept is it’s been
around for a long time, except that they carried it to the nth degree, or are carrying it to
the nth degree. But the idea of, of renting space and then sharing the space with with sub
tenants or sub occupants, or what have you is not new. It’s something that's been around
a long time, but not nearly in the expansion that they did we work has done it. And | think
it's a bait as far as we work as crew, that it's they got us they got a major problem. The
major problem is, is that it's okay to expand as long as the economy is good, and you
have startups or new offices that want to go in there. However, in the other hand, at that
point, if the economy slows down and you don't have new offices, you're going to have a
lot of space that you can't rent anymore, because it’s all rented on a short term basis. But
the deal is we work as made with with landlords are 1010 year deals. Correct. So it’s, it
depends on which side you're on. And another the concept is good. As far as the longevity
of it is concerned, | don't really know | am very hesitant, because I've seen it, it happened
too many times. We're never this great concept. But it’s hard to designate we've got where
lawyers will work together as in have law offices, which are complimentary, certainly
found in doctors offices, we'll put it all together, they've got one step further in what they
have done basically is that they use you have a lot more equipment or inflammation,
which is a technique, which is available to you because of things they put in. So they're
putting in very high class tech, high tech equipment, and also the fact that you can
network or interface with others. So it's really a very high level communicating system,
where you can, in theory, yeah, you can rent the desk for an hour, you can rent the desk for
a month, you could rent it for a year, you could rent an office for a year. So there is a lot of
flexibility. But coupled with that flexibility, just keeping track of it is and how to make it
profitable is something which is doing to me is a monumental task, which | don't think
over a long period of time can work. Because it's different. You say 53 locations or
wherever is at this. It's not the same in any particular city. It’s not the same in anyone. The
the the tenants that will will use the spaces. What do you got? Maybe a lot of startup
companies which you need the space and they don't want to go through, they don't have
the money for the quench. So they say, let me do it on a temporary basis. And yeah, that's
good. But putting it all together, it's a monumental task. To keep it going. That for

example, if you have say, say you have 111 tenant or sub tenant the uses, that's taken A lot
JO

JO

JO

JO

well, not turning ages, one after another, you can kind of get back to zero, if you have an
agent is that you're not happy with or he's not happy with the property and is not eager
to sell it, you got the wrong agent. Simple as that. You got to get somebody who says fine,
this is the ages that | want. And you got to go sell it, maybe you have to change and give
a little more, more condition commission along the way. But you need somebody who's
actually gonna go out and really push before the for the sale, or whatever it is you're
doing with the property. If they don't have the enthusiasm, it's never going to work. And
they'll immediately if they're dealing with anyone, whoever is on the other side, will
immediately see that. Because if the agent is not thrilled with the property, and not
pushing it, and say the agent has to convince whoever there, this is a great deal of great
property, if they don't feel that way. But they say hey, let me figure it out. I'm wasting my
time. Let me see how | can get some money in a commission. That's the wrong wrong
procedure. So once the agent doesn't do what you want, or fulfill what you want, get

yourself somebody else or do it yourself.

22:42

So | bump up the standard commission from 5% to 7%, and even offered to go up to 10%.

Because it does require more work.

22:50

Okay, but who is it but the agencies just won't go with it. That's fine. So you said he said
offered one. But that's as far as Hey, you got to get somebody who's hungry. To get you
against your commercials, you are young young agent or someone who is hungry to make
the deal with this is an opportunity if you're getting somebody it’s not not that it's not
worth their time and effort. And then they'll tell you everything, but they just won't do it.

2S\5

So what's your perspective of like, just call it like status 50 commercial each city, then you

go ahead and fire to a new hire third one. Good.

23:23

So how about putting out a RFP request for proposal? Hello, are you there? Yes, sir. Okay,
so how about this point, you now put a proposal in writing? All right, and you say, here's

my deal, here's what it was. I'm looking for looking for a very anxious, a broker who's
JO

JO

_)O

willing to do a time and effort. And | would be willing to pay commissions a commission
on a sliding scale based upon how well they do. And then you put that out in the
marketplace and let the let the brokers that are out there, this will work on one, and they

don't they'll do the best for you. They'll work on one another, that we ought to get this.

24:03

So on a sliding scale model, say my breakeven possible and we're listing 680, I'll tell you

5%, on the half a mil and I'll go 3070 on everything over that top number.

24:16

That's all they'll put you goes up, we go backwards, you're talking your your art, you're
arguing or you're bargaining against yourself. If you go out and you put a proposal out
there and say fine, we're willing to pay a base commission of 5% and willing to pay extra
in the event that they produce they perform very well. Don’t tell them how much the
percent is let them come back low there are brokers out there looking for cotton looking
for properties. So now you see suppose now you go back. And I'm saying now you go out
into the marketplace, and you get three proposals. Okay, you take the best one at that
point and that's the one you work off. So you take somebody that's lower and you say hey,
you know | got somebody that is agreed that they would Do it for 7%. You want 10? And
then you say, What do you want? Can we negotiate, and you work one against the other.
This is a Chinese or auction, where they're working against each other and you haven't
done anything. As the owner, you're all you're doing is you're holding up the bait. The bait
is that you have a property, where commission can be made by an attractive by a broker
who's willing to go out and work and they can make a lot of money quickly. They want to
work. So you have to go sell the concept. This is why it's such an attractive property to
sell, and why you think and what the Commission's ought to be. And you can, we can put
in any numbers that you want to indicate what it is this point. So we say, Fine, here's what
we anticipate it's going to sell for, or he’s going to, it’s going to be four, and therefore your
commission is X number of 1000s of dollars. You hold that number out, that doesn't mean
that you got to do you got to pay. But if in fact, a broker who's who's hungry, and all of a
sudden he says, Hey, | could if | touch the property, | could pick up a quick quarter a

million dollars. That's what you need.

26:05

Yeah. Like she’s quick. Yeah, exactly. Okay. Thank you so much.
Ollee

PC+-+October+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

q@ Jue, 9/1411:48AM @ 56:02

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, entity, property, pay, money, problem, point, property manager, rent, tenant, building,

business, buy, fact, lease, contract, lender, work, space, existing

JO

JO

00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross
mastermind. Good evening, George. Good evening. How are you, Victor? I'm great. How

are you? Fine, thanks. What's up?

00:13

Alright, well, we've got some great questions tonight. And we've got a good turnout as
well. A few more people joining us we speak here. Great. So welcome, everyone. Welcome
to our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross. George has been in business for
over 60 years. He's best known for his role as executive vice president in the Trump
Organization, as a judge on the TV show The Apprentice, the author of two best selling
books on real estate and negotiation. And he taught at the law school at NYU for over 20
years. Before working for Donald he worked for solid Goldman for over 10 years where he
where he wrote the file on 702 deals personally, as always, we're thrilled to have you here,
George, welcome. Oh, good. Good to be here. So George, in the news today, it’s been last
month actually, co working startup we work has been all over the front page. And they've
got it will be and will be for a while for sure. Yeah, they've got 53 locations in New York.
And it's actually quite a lot of dislocation in New York in particular, where they've been
undercutting the market, you know, a single, single wall office in Manhattan, they're
charging 1100 bucks. And a dedicated desk is only 750. And a shared desk is 500. So for
Manhattan prices that's very inexpensive. And it's created a local effect where prices have
dropped in the vicinity of a wework office. Now the truth is, they've been spending $2 in

operations for every dollar they bring in in revenue, and you factor in their expansion
JO

JO

JO

goes out, you will have the major problem. What do you do at that point? More than once,
because I've got all the big one goes out. And that's that you had it under a fixed price
contract. That's a major problem. Stay away from a fixed price. My suggestion is stay

away from a fixed price contract. Yeah. Oh, man,

34:15

that's great advice. Appreciate that. So in this particular situation, I'm actually directly
communicating with one of the subs. It's the steel guys. Great. And they want to Yeah,
yeah. So I'm glad I'm already following your advice there, but the steel guys, they want to,
you know, supply and deliver all the material and labor for the structures. But they also
want to go a step further and are proposing a turnkey of actually designing the buildings
in you know, all the detailed architecture of it. So my question is, you know, | think that

they're probably going to go overboard or,

34:53

you know, maybe upsell me on something | don’t actually need from a designer

standpoint, right. So should | separate the design From the actual song Yes,

35:01

yes. The simple Yes. Okay. Yes. And not only that whoever does is designing at that point
can come up with a preliminary price. No, you tell him at this point his his you tell him
what you have in mind in the way of what you what the structure or whatever you're
planning on building there, and let him come up and work on design. And then he comes
up the essay, okay, here's what it’s gonna cost you. And you can say, Okay, | like it or

make it locally, make it cheaper, or Okay, we do this, you control the design structure, let's
like, you go, be smart, | will put it or typical intelligent owners of property. When they deal,
they this point to get an architect and their supervisor construction party involved, and
the that the architect designs the building, what designs a building, you tell him what you
have in mind, and he'll come back and tell you this is the price. And you can say, Well, |
don't like that | don't like this as a price go and make the course. But this ain't cheap. And
then you go out and get contracts. So you have now bidding proposals out. So somebody
bids on hey, here's what you have to do is the steel work that has to go in? And all of the
types you got to do it? What's the price, and you maybe get three or four contractors
each bidding, that's great. You have to take the load with the lowest one. But you've got
you've got you know whether or not, you're getting a fair shake. Now what happens if you

go out for a contract and comes back? | said, Oh, I'll do it for half a million. Is that a good
JO

JO

JO

12:07

That's right. So recourse is very limited. What are they going to do? except to take back in
it to cancel out the lease and take back the space? But what do they get? Do they have
security? What's their? How do they get paid?

12:22

They just get a couple of beer kegs

12:25

device. That's it. But basically what what what it is, is they they now have as far as
landlord is concerned, they have a lawsuit against somebody or some entity for the rent,
which is unpaid, or the value of the lease or that was was lost collecting it. And what they
really have is, to me is questionable. | don't know. But from a landlord standpoint, if you
don't have good security, why would you do it? Yeah. But it looks like you got good
security, because you got soft bank with all this with a pot full of money behind it.
Interesting, but not its interest interesting from a discussion standpoint. But | would be
very, very hesitant to have | put any partner because | wouldn't trust anything that
whoever's running it or selling it is willing to do because they don’t know what they're
doing. The inflammation has comes down from a different source. And it's basically as you
don't know how true it is, it could be a lot worse than what you have. But it’s not accurate.
It's not like you can be company effects. A good loss is this is the loss. This is what it is it’s,
you know, they'll say, yeah, this is what it looks like. But what do you do? also understand
that if a lot if the longer the workspace goes goes south, what happens is that the people
are not going to want to go in there. Right? So people don't want to go in there. We don't
want to pay the rent on a bullet basis, saying you're not going to how do | know that I'm
going to have the space? Because if somebody builds out 10,000 square feet of space, and
we work both goes goes bankrupt, what goes out of that soace? What do you do live and
say, Hey, fine, you got to pay or get out. And what they're going to pay is whatever the
market is at the time. So it's it’s landlords, | could see it as a problem for some landlords,
but if it would be like it because the company is looks very strong, look strong on paper.
But when you when you will pierce through the shell, to not that strong. So what's next we
passed this one suggestion to all of you on the phone, pass it, but there is probably it’s, |
wouldn't eliminate it completely. There could be good opportunities for purchasing
individual properties.
JO

JO

JO

JO

26:11

You're welcome. Okay, next. Let's see, we have, Chris, this next question is from Cara Lee,
and Cara Lee is not on the call. So I'll ask the question for her. Okay, so she's got a
commercial building, which is owned in a separate real estate entity. And she also has a
food and beverage business that she also owns and operates in that space. And she
leases space from the real estate entity. There’s also other space that's rented to third
parties. And so she's got this trade off, where she's trying to figure out how much income
to take in the operating business versus how much income net income to take in the real
estate business. Because they obviously get different tax treatment. And of course, the
higher the lease amount, the higher the value of the building, and therefore potentially,
the higher amount a lender would be willing to lend against that asset. So the question is,
do you have any guidance on how to decide where to recognize the lion's share of the net
income, be it in the real estate beat in the operating business? Given that it’s not a true
arm's length relationship? At what point would either the tax authority or the or the lender

say that she's out of bounds? on on the leasing structure? Well, |

27:28

wouldn't do it, let's forget about the taxes and to do that, but they'll take whatever you
whatever your right is. Being is, that's fine. That's okay. That's, that's good. That doesn't
make any difference. You've got to be taxed on what's paid your taxes received. The the
quite the question of valuing. You'd have to see how close to the actual market rent
market space, you got to pay in the in the beverage business. So how much is that space

worth?

2fat

Well, | think there's clocks that are all over the place, | mean, you'll find

28:01

I'm talking in feet in theory, not reality, okay. Now, this way, | assume now, that the space
is worth $30 a square foot, and the beverage company pays $40 a square foot, okay, now
fine, that’s going to add value to the real estate because you got above market rental.
However, it got to the fact that you have a beverage entity, which is now paying maybe
more rent than it would pay otherwise, at this, then you've taken value from the beverage
entity, but as between the two, | would much rather build up the value of the real estate as

against the possibility in the beverage business. Because the real estate is supposed to go
JO

JO

JO

know, that’s where | would look at | wouldn't really go | wouldn't renegotiate. Okay?
Because that’s not the answer, not the answer. You're buying. You're not buying something
that's of value real value today. It’s it’s basic, but it’s got real value is once you pour in
some more money in order to make it the sale, they can make it work. So it's the
restoration, which creates the additional value, not the 50 times that whatever you'd save.
Right, right.

17:49

That makes sense. Yeah, that makes sense.

17:53

Yes. | don't think basically, it is, if in fact, let’s talk let's talk a little bit about the
renegotiating if you renegotiating with something that was something which you know,
has value, particular value at this point, that's fine. When it has speculative value, it's not
fine. In other words, if you were buying a building, at this point, it shows you basically the
number you put on you figure, okay, it shows me a seven or 8% return? Well, if | took
50,000 off the price, you would show me a 10% return, that's fine. But you've got
something that's already generating the money, you got something that's there not
something that you have to spend a lot of a lot of money before you have something real
value. So | would | wouldn't be concerned my wouldn't be concerned would read
negotiated a 50,000. But how about the terms? Do what's the 350? When's it paid? What's
the interest rate? How long do | have to pay? How do | get the paid back? Now, it seems
to me from what you're what you're describing, that you can get good terms on the 350?
Because the board wants it's got nothing there. It's got some, it's got a building is not up
to code. What value does that has? No, it has some value because it's basic land on basic
Grove road building. But nevertheless, in order to get this reinvesting, especially in the
facts, what you say is that it got right away without a car proposal. Alright, how about
instead of a kind of proposal, how about the kind of proposal on the terms of the 350
grant?

19:35

So you're saying for example, you know, pay for the sake of argument 300 on closing and

then 50,006 months and or something?
JO

JO

JO

JO

of space, and you built it out, if we were built it out, and now all of a sudden that company
goes broke or whatever, what do you do with it? Now? You got to rent it out? Well, what
about the delay in the renting? What if the market is not there? What if somebody doesn't
need that amount of space? So the the logistics of such an operation, to me, are mind
boggling. And | think it's to just keep it going and make it profitable is a monumental task,
it could be profitable in one, whatever, in one city in one building, it could be profitable in
other cities or other buildings, but to take the concept and make it on a national basis,
capital, covering millions of square feet of space Boy, that’s that's that forget that one. |
mean, when I'm saying that, don't forget it. Good luck to them. | see it has happened
many times, in variations, where it’s become a major problem. For example, I've seen
where a one particular tenant will rent an entire shopping center, and then sub it out. Is
that any different than what we're talking here? No. Different concept?

06:08

Yeah. many respects. It’s not | mean, you know, | run a we work business on a very small
scale with a tenants and I've got, yeah, you know, I'm paying rent at $25, a square foot
gross, and I'm renting it out probably the equivalent of 55 $60 a square foot by chopping
it up into smaller pieces. And it’s, it’s, it's a good business, it's not an outstanding business.

It's just good.

06:31

It's a good business. But it | think it's very good if it's controllable. Correct. | think at this
point, you just say, well, the concept is good. We can take it anywhere, national or
worldwide, and make it work in buildings in various cities that have different costs are
different things. It's just, you know, it's a, it’s becomes so difficult to manage. And it's so
hazardous. If you put you know, if you put a lot of money in one particular area and that

area go south, what are you going to do? How do you make up that money?

07:05

Right, right. | guess I'm wondering if there's an opportunity now that SoftBank is going to
be in charge of the of the company and they're going to be probably i

07:13

don't think so i don't think i think SoftBank did have a lot more than they can chew. | think,
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

40:38

That's phase two. paying it back is phase two. How you got to get it shows you're saying
now, what's the whatever the bank debt is? Somebody has to come up with the money to

pay it. And that's | assume, as you

40:53

correct. So

40:55

you do what about the district? What about the the distressed owners? The distressed

seller? Does he have any money to put up or not?

41:03

So George, the the issue, the the approach here is actually another bridge lenders

stepping in at 60 65%. loan to value and taking out taking out.

41:15

Gotcha. Okay. So what you're saying is good, I'm going to replace these I'm going to
made arrangements are going to make arrangements to come up with funding to read to
buy out the existing mortgage. My right, correct, yes. Okay, fine. Forget that you're not
concerned with the with the funding, whatever it is, you've got a bridge loan, it's a it’s one
loan, five loans, two loans, construction loan is guaranteed. Partially, that is important for
me at this particular time. That's for you to decide. All I'm saying is, yeah, you signed a
problem now. Yep. Somebody could come up with the money and going to buy out the
mortgage. That's fine. What do you do next? Who is that? Who's buys out the mortgage?
Who signs? The what? No, the existing lender who signs the note to who signs the note or

the loan from the new lender?

42:08

existing landowner? Because they're going to they're going to remain majority on title

matters. Matt
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

jo

42:15

is going to end on it but at this correct, but basically, this was no question that this in my
mind at this time. Maybe | could be wrong. But the by the the bridge lender was not going
to be satisfied completely with the existing owner. Correct. We've got to say | need some |
need more. Correct. | need somebody to cosign | need some money. | know no at this
point. But the obviously, the existing the existing owner is in trouble and doesn't have the

wherewithal for me to make the loan directly to the existing owner.

42:49

Well, not exactly. So what happened was the existing owner was has made every single
loan payment. The the existing note is in default, because of actions taken by the
attorney, who was not acting in his clients best interest. He was actually trying to steal the

property from the client by pushing him into default.

43:10

Oh, boy, that's interesting. But how did you get all the way to the sale?

43:18

The owner that he had sellers for the property so as not to renew his mortgage. So they
kept not renewing, kept extending, kept not renewing, kept, not extending, then the bank

said, enough's enough. We're calling him the loan.

As

Okay, fine, but they've called it a lot have a started a formal foreclosure proceeding.

43:36

We don't have foreclosures. We don't have foreclosures in Ontario, its power of sale. But

okay, it's a power

43:42

of sale. Let me just backtrack, because I'm not familiar with a with with what is Ontario,
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

that'll be the end of somebody else will buy it? Yes. Okay. | just want to make sure we're on

the same page.

39:45

Yeah, that’s pretty much what | said. That's what we're trying to do. We're trying to get a

smaller just in the property, get refinanced, stabilized. But wait a

39:51

minute, wait. Back Back up a minute was really small as your property who's how much
you've got to pay off the bank? Yes. So that’s a small idea. A small interest in property by
paying off the bank, what we're

40:02

looking to do is actually refinancing the property because we're eliminate their debt for

the new financing.

40:09

Okay. Are you saying fine? So you saying for what you're what you're what you're going to
do with it basically, is you're going to in, you're going to handle the for the existing

foreclosure by paying off the product buying it off. Yeah. All right. Pretty much. Yes.

40:23

We're gonna finance it's probably

40:25

a pretty much with what's missing. Well,

40:27

how do | word it? So? Yeah, so what we're trying to do is we're trying to Well, we'll be

refinancing it, but the property will then cashflow and pay itself back with the new No.
