JO

_)O

JO

she's looking to get into the private lending business, extensively to place funds for her
own family into income producing assets. Now, obviously, as a lender, and | know, George,
you've done a lot of lending over the years, there’s a spectrum of risks. And you're, the
banks do a very thorough job of qualifying the borrower qualifying the asset qualifying
the loan to market and so on. She doesn't have she's not a bank, she doesn't have all of

those tools.

45:05

So there are people who do. Okay, there are brokers Oh, there we go, there are financial
investors a property that would be more than happy to accommodate her and do
everything that would be done, do appraisals, and, you know, come back and make
recommendations, this is good to buy, this is not good to buy, this is a good investment, |
would not be as concerned about who the lender lender is, the borrower is right. Now, that
wouldn't bother me as it is due to the the value of the property loan to value ratio, and if

some type of appraisal from a reputable institution,

45:45

so you're saying you're fine with pure asset based lending without necessarily having to

do a ton of qualification on the borrower.

45:51

Correct. Because it's very hard to get it from the borrower, even though the borrower may
be personally liable, which if they're smart borrower, they won't be personally liable to do
it in an LLC or a corporation. And therefore, you're going to rely upon the value of the
property. Right? So it's important that you have a some appraiser or some advisor who's
familiar uncontrol the other values, which will make an investigation on the property,
where it is what is in the neighborhood. So it would do everything that a bank would do.
Except that there may be or you may have more leeway, because banks have a tendency
to be very, very restrictive. And people with very small minds, the bankers, if they were if
they were smart business people, they wouldn't be bankers. They'd be business people.
But nevertheless, there are plenty of experts which are available, which would give a give
the give them the information, or the expertise they need you tell them? Here's the type of
investment we're looking for. Here's the return. In what what what do you recommend?
What areas or whatever, we'll go watch one family? Do | want? Multiple housing? Do |
want shopping set? What do | want to tell them what it is you want, and what you

anticipate the return would be on the risk that you pick up?
JO

JO

47:07

So you're essentially saying, outsource, outsource some of these diligence for offense

47:12

absorbed all of it? All of it. Okay? Yes, I'm not saying that you shouldn't get the
information. But you can now have a financial person in that, you know, analyze the
information that you get from your outsource. So | wouldn't just take and say this is this is
as gospel what you're what you're giving me, but you have somebody look at it. So if all of
a sudden you have a building is showing a 14% return, and you say, Well, why don't if it's
really good, why is it showing for it? Why is it showing 14%, the price will be high. But if you
look at it real it’s it's good to have somebody check on the checker, to who's ever doing
the basic information that you have to the visor, and then we're going to get a fee for it.
So accurately, if you buy the property, if you make the investment upfront title fee for this
search, | wouldn't pay unnecessarily just to go look, but if they come up with something
that we like, can pay him a fee if the deal if it goes through if | make a loan. Right, right.
That's fine. Yeah. Okay. Next, let's go to Southern California. Somebody there. Hey, Victor.
Hey, George, how are you guys? | am fine. How are you doing? Good. Thanks for taking my
question. So | didn't we talk before? We did. | took your advice. It's been helpful, multiple
times. It's always helpful. Okay. Last call, you recommended that | find a new attorney,
the attorney that | had was, was weak. So | had a new litigator for that matter of my
property manager. And he reviewed the property management agreements. And he didn't
see any wording in the contract. Because the manager, the that we're facing, the property
manager will disclose and marking up maintenance repairs. Why should we lock up
renewed repairs? Why isn’t that part of a property manager? why shouldn't they or why
should they? Why should they? Where's that? Where's that come from? Well, they just kind
of started doing it. | understand he started to great. It's great for the property manager,
but the property managers had on properties that | was involved with. They never got
anything for doing contracts and repairs with outside parties. Okay. So yeah, well, that's |,
I'm not, I'm not saying that they can't supervise part of it and get a fee for the supervision.
But a property manager is not really a construction person. Right. So somebody can still
say that you have a plumbing problem. Effectively the plumbing plumbing problem, you
want to get to get it fixed. So if you had an outside contractor, or the outside contractor
that comes to say, I'll fix that Probably $40,000 Why should the property manager get a
fee for doing that? Because what happens, you'll say, Hey, you know what? Mega 60,000?
If | have a VC your action, of course, we'll build it up. So it's an it's a license to steal. Yeah,
definitely conflict of interest. And that’s exactly what happens. Yeah. Okay, so, so. So the
attorney recognizes that too, he says that we can, we can go and sue for all the profits.

Imagine, they charged us from the beginning.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

34:04

Yeah. Oh, say put some kind of ubu bite, you put some kind of restriction on to his benefit,

and you take whatever's leftover? Yeah, yeah, we answer two questions at the same time.

34:15

| think we did. | think we did. So | guess the question is, | mean, in terms of deal structure,
would we be better off just purchasing the property outright? in financing with
conventional debt? Or would we be better off waiting? The, you know, the entire
entitlement periods in our know what it’s worth? Any thoughts on that? Whether, you

know, we,

34:38

| would think it is probably, | would, | would say | think it's worth waiting? Because they're
such as what you're talking about is a tremendous differential from what | understand to
what the difference between the price one way and the price the other way? Yeah. So with
that tremendous differential, unless you're sure pretty, pretty sure you got to be really sure
that it can work out. to your benefit, even though you, even though you've got a lot of
work to do to get the approvals necessary to build on what you want to build. So | said,
My gut reaction is, is you put a sliding scale, if | can do this, to get one price if | can't, if |
could do more, you get a better price. And | think from what I'm gathering from what
you're saying, and maybe reading into it, something that's not there is, this might be
attractive to the owner, because he’s only talking about a small building, and you're
talking about a major building and say, well, like, hey, if you get if | get the rights to build a
major building, you're going to get a lot more than you would get if you got a small
building. That's right. Yeah. So say there’s an inducement for him to ride with you. Correct?
Correct.

35:50

So it'd be a sliding scale priced into the option. Correct, presumably for his protection, we
would put an overhang in the option so that let's say the entitlement comes in two years

after we exercise the option, he’s still entitled to his money.

36:05

Absolutely. Absolutely. Got an inducement, then, for you to go through it. And | think that
JO

JO

JO

JO

LLC, as they, you know, if they'd sold the property outright. But that’s a technical question,
do you need an accountant for that? Alright, but | don't | don't see any any see any
objection to it, to take out to do basically to take over the LLC, if you have control. If you
say what you have, I've got control of the property for up to a ground lease with an option

to buy a good, that's really the alternative. Right? Take your choice do either one works.

16:39

The other thing for you, Josh to look into, | know the state of Maryland has this state level
requirement for what they have designated as sensitive areas. Basically, anything within
two miles of the coast has to go through a state level environmental impact assessment,
in addition to your zoning, so that could extend your process significantly. So you
definitely want to do some due diligence on that. And make sure that that's not going to

turn you know, what you think is a nine month process into three years or longer.

17:12

We and the good news is we didn't it retain our engineer. And you're absolutely right, |
should probably build it in is a estimated 12 months with some type of guaranteed

extensions. Correct. In cases,

17:23

that's today, but estimates that you can see, it seems today, from what what what you're
just saying, you can have good control out of this situation. And as long as you're saying
good, this is my problem. If it turns out that I've got environmental problems early, it may
take longer. But you can build that into either you're saying your lease lease with an

option to purchase, or you can build it into a contractual arrangement with the LLC.

17:51

Alright, and the last thing is, is | think I've already breached the subject and got him to
agree that there's not really a transfer of any kind of cash at this time. Boy, that's nominal,
maybe in escrow. So | worry a little bit just outside using the word lease. Because we
should | should | worry about lease or right now | was going to set it up that we will not

why. So you show Should | set a number on the lease? or whatever?
_)O

they knew that they couldn't get hurt. If they if they made a low deal. And somebody else
made a high deal, they get the benefit of the high deal now and went and did this through
the entire block, went around the hot tire block bought up all the properties because they
have to be contiguous. And the last one happened to be a church. And the church didn't
want to sell the property, the air rights even though they were never going to build the
church or roses, and pay them like 200 and some odd dollars in FAA asked for their air
rights, and had to go back and pay everybody else 200 and some odd dollars in FAA. But
the end result was you built a building, which was 90 stories tall. That's brilliant. That's just
build at that point. And of course, you got it. And you got to review if you're running that
you're not that far from the river. And effectively the the condominium units that were in
there went for like 60 $500 a square foot tall. Oh, it didn’t make sense. So the overall,
however, not However, what this was done without any variance, or any proof was you
needed from the city owes is done as a matter of right that you could do this. And that's
what we did. And they say and then got into went into the ground. The adjacent owners
all of a sudden said, Wait a minute, wait, you're building a new building a 90 storey
building, the UN is only 45. storeys, we can't, you're going to block off air, right, you're
going to block off site losing whatever we no one ever expected. on that site. There was
going to be a building of this size because it wasn’t when the was owned by the architects.
But we were already there. And when they went to the judge, the judges, look, they didn't
do anything wrong. All they did was they did what they can do under the law. If you don't
like the law, change the law. But meanwhile, they're going to build that building. So that’s
the story.

32:48

Awesome. That just that just gave me some might be the answer to the next question.
Okay. So this is Patrick, are you done with that before | am yet? Thanks a lot, George.
Appreciate it. You're welcome, Patrick. Good luck with it. Thank you. So | think it’s a
natural segue into into the next question, which is actually from my business, where we're
actually negotiating on several parcels of land to build a land assembly also for a high
rise tower. And one of the neighbors owned as an investment property, they're actually
looking to build buy, right, a three story unit apartment building that we would like to pull
into the land assembly, as is the current market value of that property is only maybe
600,000, then, and the seller has rejected that price multiple times before devalued up to
me is based based on buildable square footage, just like you know, the previous
conversation. Right. Right. And so now in my case, it could be worth anywhere from let's
say, 900,000 to 2 million, but again, on the on the on the ratio. There you go. Yeah, | think |

think you just answered this question, too.
JO

jo

JO

JO

is in the height not necessarily in the building itself. Okay,

24:24

yeah. | like | like FDR, because then if the setbacks reduce the the little little footprint and

yeah, he still works out not only

24:34

concept is the concept, the FA R and euro control the FA are the city does. Yeah. So you're
saying hey, it's the city goes goes and gives me a good, good, good, Jeff AR. I'll give you
this price. It's less FBR. It's lesser price, but that he should understand that because that
affects the value of the property. Yeah. So he may he or the potential seller may say hey,
based on this fact that | got 45 stories here, this is this. This is a goldmine. Yeah, but if
you're in the UK, you're if you're limited and you can only build 10 stories, you're not a

goldmine. Yeah. So

25:09

how do we approach that with the seller because he believes you can build a big building?

25:14

Yo, yo, do it. So what you say is good, you agree that you'll do that you will basically go for
the maximum building that you can get on it, you have approached the city and do it is an
axiom. And the price basically depends on how successful you are. So it's a sliding scale.
And it's something that should be readily saleable. They should understand it, because it
makes good sense. Yeah. And | don't know if it’s, it's whether or not how it stands where
you believe, of course, | don't know you're in Ottawa. So | don't know what the what it is
there. But in the United States will make errors United States, this is a, this is a snap. When
| say the concept is just snap, depending upon how good how good the municipality or the
city is willing to go with it. But you know, understand the two things, you may have more
problems with that because they may throw in something else that they like, because
you're not building a large building or a large building and therefore they want to have
some other amenity a park or so you know, what the city wants? It can hold you up
because they figure that's what they can do. Why not? Right. But that's, that goes with the

territory.
JO

JO

JO

JO

50:32

At the same time, and |, you might have already answered this with that question with
Mike. And then that seller, not disclosing.

50:40

He, the attorney basically book values, except that, you know, what he's recommending
we try to settle it, if there’s a monetary damages and not Western goods, which he gets
risk by settling at appropriate point in time is certainly highly recommended. To get to a
point to get to get to that point in time, when it should be settled or ready to settle is, is
something that has to be worked over a period of time. So somebody what has to be what
you have what you have to arrive at. So now, again, the damages before you even, you
know, make a claim against for the property manager, give me a number, how much you
want to claim for on the low end $400,000? For 2000, so you're suing for two and a half
million. Okay? All right, now, let me get to the 400,000. You're gonna have to justify what
you anticipate the amount of profit that they made on the work that was done, and you
will be entitled in litigation, to get their books and records has to see what the actual
purchase price, what the actual price was, from the contractor, whoever did the work and
the maintenance. And then you can get back again to the people from the maintenance
to say, hey, what was this price? Did you get anything more? Was this a normal price that
you pay? Or was there any advantage? Because you will get you had an end with my

property manager? Right? with me right now, this thing stinks.

52:11

As far as inflating it, though, from the 400 to the two and a half that buffer in there

52-17

with what you think it is? Okay, this is what you're thinking it, you estimate the estimate
over the period of years that we're talking about that that we anticipated the damage, it
was the the amount of the overcharge was two and a half million. That doesn't mean
you're going to get it. But this is the number you put in later on. You can always change
change, say | thought it was that but | found out it's less or more. But the number has to
be big enough to scare him to get them to sit back, sit down and work out a settlement. a
realistic settlement. If it's worth 400,000, if it's worth 400,000, and you ask for 400,000,
you're not going to get the 400. Right. So you got to you got to build in a little more. Now,

I'm not saying pulling numbers out of here, but you're getting to figure out basically what
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

26:30

Yep. Okay. So the second part to my question kind of relates to that buildable area, the
setbacks. So we were wondering if there's a mechanism by which one would be able to
like purchase the setbacks from neighboring parcels without actually purchasing the

buildings?

26:50

| don't know the purchasing setbacks that Yeah, | don't know what is that? It depends on
the capacity. There are instances in certainly alliances in New York is was not a major
problem. Another way, you can take the air rights from an existing existing building, and
say, I'm going to move those air rights into my building within my site, which is right next
to it. Yeah. So I'll say so somebody who's got a got a three storey building on it with with
20,000 feet more than he could build. And | say, Okay, we'll put a restriction on the 22nd,
you can never build that 20,000 feet, but the 20,000 feet goes to me alongside I'll pay you
for the 20,000 feet. So what they're doing is you're taking the right to build on one site
and moving it to another site, which | don’t know if it's if it's available in your jurisdiction,

but it was definitely available in New York. To be in, it had to be an adjoining property.

27:50

Okay. So you basically you're you're able to densify your parcel based on the the

neighboring parcel you

27:57

basically take any other issue based on a get on a perpetual restriction on a neighboring
parcel, okay. So what happens as in the in the records and the titles, it will show up, that
that parcel of is, can never be more than 30,000 to 30,000 square feet? He's got on it.
Okay, got it. Okay, and But nevertheless, the other view, there's another 50,000, which
was available, but we can't use it anymore. calculations, go to the next one. So it’s, it's, it’s
taught it's forever tied to the minimum height. Okay. But they would, they would do it

because it makes sense. We're never going to build it anyway. Why not pay for it?

28,59

Yeah, exactly. That's, that's exactly what we're thinking here is there's, there's not there.

There's a pretty small distance between what where our tower would be in the 45 storey
JO

JO

JO

JO

08:12

So if you close 703, then you probably actually actively worked on | don't know, 1000 1500,

maybe more.

08:20

Yep, yep. Yep, and throw away a whole bunch of the details, it doesn't fit, our pattern
doesn't fit his pattern. And it's not worth spending a lot of time on. So basically
concentrated on those which are the most active, they could work in a short period of
time, and would be the most rewarding. But that's it's easy to say it’s hard to do when you
there, you know, because we have a tendency to say, it’s easier for me to do it myself than

to give it to somebody else.

08:47

Well, it’s not only that a fallacy, correct? Well, it's not only that, there's also the question
of once you start down a path, and it looks like a project is gonna work. turning it off at
that point. You're left with questions. Well, if | say no to this now, and it's at the 11th hour, is

there loss of reputation? Is there

09:07

no loss of reputation? It's a question of how you handle it. That's not there. You can always
say no, don't ever be afraid to walk out of a deal. You can find lots of reasons to walk. And
the other thing is somebody on the other side, they may walk out of your deal and and
what are you going to say? Well, you, you could do your best you shouldn't do that. That's
it. When it comes to there's money on the table, people will do what's in their best interest
to get whether or how it looks. Yep. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Well, it’s true. Trust
me, it goes for a long period of time. This is how | could do it. And this is how it was very
successful. A very successful when | was with representing Goldman dealer renjo and also
representing major clients to be able to use your time in the most expeditious manner and
accomplish that which is most important for you and your clients. Not easy. What's next.
Okay, next, we have a question. from Josh, and I'll unmute you here. Josh. Are you there?
Absolutely. Hey, Victor. Hello, George. Hi, Josh. Hi. How are you? doing? Great. Thanks for
the time. Good, greatest good. | was like, What is good? What can we help you with?
it was, what the average maintenance was, what are the fees, what the bill is worth? You
know, | know you can figure out what it was for the repairs and maintenance or what?
Somehow you must have been charged for it or, or the property manager gave you a list
of what they were in said take the night. If they did, yeah, yeah. Okay, so now you say
that, okay, that's fine. So that you show you to take the number and you say, Fine, you get
you get it came up what you charge? you charge me 20 $10,000 for this, but it should be
worth 2500 You owe me 7500? That's great. You also think | could use that angle that you
recommended? From from definitely, you know, the seller and the broker where you're
putting money into a deal and because the deal went sour that the time value of money
loss? Like is there anything different from this that repetitiveness from using that angle?
No, | don't think | don't think it's the same. There's no way you have a different situation
you you have a property manager, which has been doing which has done something
wrong, or and is it | don't know that you can really indicate to deal with fraud and what
was done in the property management there's fraud in the in these in some of the things
that they did as a result of it, but | don't it's it's it's one step away one step removed from
from an inducement. That was you didn't go into the deal because of this property
manager. Right. Did you know The property? What was the deal? Actually, the property
managers tell you the deal. They the first deal they did yeah, they were managing it for
the seller something that's something then you got this different if you can find a tie in the
code with the property manager and the deal that they did. told you that’s that's
different. If you can do that. That's that's that's a possible lead in. If you can't, this They
just say the property manager or something, then that’s good. Don't have the availability
of that type of thing. But something to be concerned to speak to your lawyer. You're on
the right track. For sure. Thank you very much. Okay. Very good. Thank you, George.
Great. Another great. Yes, yes. Okay. Have a good holiday and I'll speak to you next
month next month. Terrific. Thank you have a great holiday, everyone. Good night. Good

night.

Robert 55:29
There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

12:38

you would not hit well, because you have to know we were going to perform, | just worry
that he'll be the one holding the title for the next year. And we will be increasing for what
we got. So you got a contract? If you can recall, why can't you put a restriction on the title?
Okay, option on record? option on record? Okay, I'd never heard of that. Oh, here’s what

I'm more of an operator than a deal guy. So this is very, very informative. Thank you.

13:05

Yeah. So but you can put an option, you can put a restriction on the time that he cannot
transfer, okay, so then know that you have an option. Okay? All right at this number edited
up. So that immediately would prevent anyone who's, who wants to get involved there,
they can't work around that option, they must come to you. Alright, next ring that Stop,
stop your competitors. It's a simple agreement. just acknowledging the fact that there is

not you have an option to purchase. You don't have to put in a price or anything.

lae32

So it’s simply a matter of recording the option on title correct. You can do that restriction

on title, right?

la37

Let the next wrinkle is I'll use the numbers for an example. 5.2 is the price if the
development rights for the hotel do not happen if the developer that's okay. Let's make a
Chinese menu. That's exactly what I'm saying. So Teach me this real quick, if you don't
mind. So here's the deal. He's willing to go on to my general partnership as a passive
investor for the next million. So, point 2262 he will hold that much in equity. Waiting for
you know, approximately five years | told him until the full build out of the hotel, and then
we'll buy him out. Right. Any nuances? | mean, | can articulate it verbally but what you

know in general, what am | pitfalls, upsides What should | look out for any one of those?

14:29

What do you look out for your guy controlling the whole situation? What are you looking
out for? Okay, now my control of it before they say is this suppose it doesn't work the way
you have in mind you go back to him and renegotiate the deal.
JO

JO

JO

05:48

Oh, yeah, that's true. Because what happens when you have the items and put them when
you decide what's going to go you're a file, find out, you'd have to look at yourself, say, is
this something | should be doing? Or can | properly delegate it? If you can delegate it,
delegate it, don't do it. And that immediately says, Well, this is not that important. So | can
delegate it, even if even if it bombs, it’s not critical. But that which is so important, |

cannot delegate. So if that’s how you figure out what file is going to go in? And you say,
Well, this is fine. That's | can put it in your C file. Because | can delegate it, well, fine, that’s
delegated. Let somebody else they can, because it's not so important. If it doesn't go
exactly the way you might want it to go. is absolutely critical in any business step a
concentrate on that, which is going to give you the most money and the most growth.
That makes that makes sense. Yeah, it's all my life. This is how basically when | was in the
doing major real estate for multimillionaires, and | was working on dozens of deals at the
same time, and | had to be prioritizing, so put, put them in the order so that they were the
important ones got taken care of right away. And the less important was that now some
deals never got made big deals, they were not that important. That's why they were in the
C file.

07:06

Okay, well, that's okay. That's exactly where | was gonna go. Because | know at one time
you were doing a tremendous volume of business, for remember, for Sol Goldman, and

you're, you know, |

07:15

did at that point, and in the 10 years that | was with him, he went from 17 properties to
720. In 10 years, that's like one a week, right? You're going to do, you're going to do 700
properties. And these are major properties when I'm talking about, you know, something
that's a few dollars, major properties. So | had to basically prioritize, and deal with on
almost on an assembly line. And if something was what, what, take it out of the file, don't
do it. It was this is what then Fortunately, he was not he was not an anxious buyer. In other
words, if it didn’t work the way he wanted to work, forget it go on to the next. So that we
didn't spend a lot of time trying to make deals with or wouldn't necessarily to be made.
And since they were based, they were at the time real estate in New York, they had lots of
deals. So the question of prioritizing, getting the ones done, that couldn't be done without

too much problem and putting the others on the on a different wavelength.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

42:42

Now they have a note that is due? | don't know. Let's say it’s due in the second quarter. So
when there's litigation pending, that means that can sometimes mean that it's difficult to

refinance in that environment.

42:58

Yeah, that would that could be absolutely. So is that a reason not to proceed with the suit?

43:05

No. Absolutely not. You got that there’s no reason not to proceed. We've got at this point
you somebody lied to you. Or lied, lied dramatically. And he actually wasn't picked up on
the due diligence. Fine, that that’s not a not a defense, that you should have known. You
gave me a bad set of papers. You lie You should have known better. Everything that you
put in a contract basically is a representation. You put in a rent roll you put in this, that's
that's what you told me it was. | have a right to rely upon it. Even though | didn’t check it
out in detail, you're not obligated to do it. You could take your representation fraud in the
inducement.

43:44

Okay, well, | know Mike is going to be listening to this recording tomorrow with Okay, let's

say very, his ears wide open. So thank you for that. That's great.

43:54

Okay, great. Okay, no, | wouldn't worry, | wouldn't worry about it. The stronger the more,
the stronger the lawsuit is with the more dollars of exposure to get the judge not going to
get it. So if you figure on the title for $2 million, and you say, Yeah, but I'm suing you for 50.
They're going to look at the 50 say, well, that’s outrageous that we have But nevertheless,
it's still 50 they still figure that the potential exposure. Okay. every reason to be creative?
Yep. You can tell that to Mike, what's next? Okay, so

44:28

next carolee are you on the phone? She's not on the phone. I'll ask the question for her. So
JO

JO

00:51

It's incredible. It really is. And this time of year, in fact, a number of us just came back from
a week of goal setting usually take about three or four days and do some deep work of
goal setting on the beach in Mexico. Good, good place to go set. Yeah, it is actually it was
wonderful. They had they had a palapa set out at the end of appear set up like a wedding.
Because like | say it used it for a wedding. But anyway, that was our boardroom for a
couple of days. So it was pretty cool. Oh, great. So at this time here, you know, we take
that time to really focus on goal setting. And when | went into 2019, | had a whole bunch
of active projects. And several projects came to conclusion. So reduce the number of
things that were competing for my attention. But I'm still working harder than ever before.
And that net result is that just for me, personally, | have not achieved many my goals for
2019. Across the board. Now, some things have gone well. And you know, we've returned a
bunch of capital to investors, and we sold some assets that are performed well, and we've
got some project started. And we've built a portfolio of vacation rentals, lots of good stuff
happening. And as | look at my goals for 2020, I'm now carrying a lot of 2019 goals into
2020. And I'm struggling with how to reset expectations for myself reset expectations with
stakeholders, when | find myself at a point beyond the original expectations that were set.
And my question around this is when you approach expectation setting when you're
ready way late, how do you do that? Do you build buffer back into the new forecast?

Because that puts you even later on paper, then? No,

02:32

no, no, | think no buffer back in the forecast is not the whole the whole thing. | think the
most important thing that | can tell you is what | would have known as many times before
the 8020 rule, which is inviolate. 8020 rule is the following 20% of what you do will get you
80% of your income or your growth. So don't concentrate on the new what's left of the
80% concentrate on the 20% because that's going to be the most worthwhile. So if in
handling a project, whatever the projects are, you going to focus on them, put them in the
order of importance, so that you're going to concentrate on those which are the most
meaningful, and the others you don't concentrate on what | suggest. And | suggest
everybody that's on here, what | used to do the same thing, make three folders, ABC, in a
goes everything that's critical, it has to be done quickly. In C put though, put items which
can wait and don't have to be done quickly. And they're less important. And then be put
that what you don't know should be an A or a B, C, because sooner or later it will be an
error see. But if you can handle everything that's in your a file on an A on a good quick
and they expedition matter, at that point, you will find that your bait that you're very, very

successful. And you don't have to worry about the finer items that you didn't get.
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

18:17

Yeah, the number on least what are you going to pay for the use of the property? What
are you going to pay him? What are the terms of the lease base, basically the same thing

that you're going to build it with the terms of the contract?

18:27

You know what | could do, | could set the lease payment at the amount of his debt, so that
he at least knows his whole gap. That way he feels safe. And I'm not paying extra?

Because he's not?

18:39

Well, yeah, but the base, basically what you're doing, then you're buying his mortgage?
Well, I'm not allowed to try buying the debt. I'm assuring him, he'll be safe for the time. So

insurance is a if you control the mortgage, but don't give it up.

18:52

Yeah, cuz it’s a, it's a no, we're not gonna be able to keep Yes, we are going to keep it for

this year, too.

18:57

So you keep it so you keep it at this point fine. So that that takes the immediate pressure
off him. And he takes the immediate pressure on you can work out whatever terms you
want and connect you with that mortgage or the debt or the financing this on the
property to show him that he’s got nothing to be afraid of. That's fine. But you also at that
point that gives you tremendous amount of control in the event that he backs off and
does something that it's inappropriate, you now have control of the property through the
market. Fantastic, | believe, sir. Any other questions? I'm missing? Victor. Thank you very
much. You're welcome. Anything you say Sounds Sounds a very interesting. One thing you
said that basically this what you're talking about? What type of a hotel you're talking
putting there.

19:42
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

Okay, well, | think it serves itself well as a independent which is our specialty. We have our

own independent brand in a sense.

19:50

So right how close is it the water is on the water. So what are you waiting for? Exactly,

brother. | agree. The hot area could be Could be good couldn't be harder.

20:01

| haven't under agreement. Now it's just it's just one of these things where it's, he’s gonna
have a hard time moving to now because the acid itself is not worth what we haven't

under contract for

20:10

understand, understand, but that's the same thing. It's not worth it now, but it will be at a
point in time. It needs work in order to bring it up to what the value would be. Exactly. But
it sounds to me from what you're saying, not pull it on, or put words in your mouth, but
from where it is, and what what it is what you have to do what you're intending to do with
it. It sounds to me like a super opportunity to for a major improvement. And knowing it just
for knowing that there’s always a need for in that area for any type of a facility. Not
necessarily hotels as such, but certainly catering facilities, weddings, that type of stuff,
which could be built in. That's exactly our business plan. You nailed it. Well got it. So
because I'm familiar with the area, my daughter lives in the Washington area. It's a real
pleasure talking with you, sir. You're great. You're great, man. Thank you, buddy. Good luck

with it. Sounds great. Thank you, Victor. Thank you.

21:12

Thanks, Josh. Okay, and next. Let's go to Patrick. Patrick, you're on the line? | am. Hey,
Patrick. Hey, George. Thanks, Victor. Yeah. Alright, so

2:25

let's get started. So we have a development parcel that we're considering purchasing, or
maybe partnering with the seller. The neighboring property has 45 or 45 storey condo

tower. So obviously, the owner believes that his lands worth a lot based on the
Ollee

PC+-+December+2019+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

ge Thu, 9/92:383PM @ 55:46
SUMMARY KEYWORDS

property, property manager, build, question, deal, seller, llc, building, price, inducement, storeys,

george, land, point, buy, worth, contract, due diligence, parcel, broker

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind. Good evening, George. Hi, welcome. Thanks. Good to be here.

00:10

JO

We've got a good turnout tonight. And we've got more people joining as we speak. So
we'll jump right in. Okay. Okay. Well welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly
mastermind call with Mr. George Ross. Of course, George is best known for his role
working in the Trump Organization for 47 years in business for over 60 years, taught at the
law school at NYU for over 20 years, author of two best selling books on real estate and
negotiation and co star with the TV show The Apprentice. So great to have you here.

Again, George,

00:39

JO

it's good to be here the end of the year. It is it’s hard to believe the decades over? Sure. It's

hard to believe how fast it goes.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

tower, so they wouldn't really be able to build a really big tower anyways, because they're

too close, too close to ours and too close to theirs. So if we if we buy their their air rights,

28:57

then it is definitely worth looking into. | just don't know yours. You suggest Canada and
Canada. So but | think there was a lot of lawyers that do and that have a listen, it’s worth

certainly worth looking into. Okay. So George, if

29:13

| remember correctly, the Trump Tower was done was only made possible because of air

rights. Is that correct?

221%

Correct. Correct. Trump World Tower was only made possible with air rights.

29:23

Maybe for the folks on the call. Why don't you share that story? For a moment?

29:27

Yeah, okay. Well, what happened was is very interesting. It was this piece of property,
which was on | think, is First Avenue in Manhattan in the 40s. And it was a building on it,
which was the architect of the architectural society had the building. And effectively they
wanted to they wanted to sell a building at a price that the building was not worth. In
other words, they wanted a high high price, and they had a piece of small piece of land
that was there and it's really As the price was high for what it was, but what we did, what
we decided to do was to buy the air rights of the adjacent buildings almost on the entire
block. Now in order to do that, one of the problems you have is once you're in the market,
everybody wants, you may be dealing with 15 owners, and everybody hears about, oh, he's
going to be sold. And then you got an impossible negotiation. Because you got different
owners think how much it's worth. So what we did was the following was the Joyce Jason
owner, and said, Are you here, we'll buy your air rights. At this point, your will buy your air
rights and $65, a square, a FLIR. And if we give any other owner of the problem with

Jason property more than $65, you'll get the highest amount. So now, that eliminated,
JO

JO

JO

JO

10:18

Okay, so we have a deal structure question. It has to do with an opportunity to learn
hospitality. We do Hospitality Management, and we rehab resorts primarily, right? A
motivated seller, with a unique property, that's going to be hard for him to sell it. It's also
it's undersized at 24 units. It's bad, but it’s very large property. 224 acres on the water
outside of Annapolis. So it's got desirable land, a little bit of a tired old 200 year old in
that needs updating. It has the need for a banquet hall upgrade. So last June is creative
deal structuring. And Victor, feel free to phrase my question better if you want. But in
general, we're looking at what here's what we initially had on, we have an under
agreement right now for a two part close. Part One would watch the first part. Part One
would be to take some kind of controlling, not controlling but controlling contract, let's
say, to have a piece of his current LLC that owns the deal while we step in and operate
immediately, so that we can have 12 months for the ultimate closing on the asset. At that
time, we would take over now we would initiate the land development process to upgrade
the ballroom at an affordable, we have an affordable plan. We would sell against that. So
basically, we would be changing the value of the asset by selling contracts immediately.

Yeah. year from now, after further land development rights to get a hotel bill.

12:00

We will close pitfalls, ideas, more creativity. He seems | assume at this point where you're

going in even in phase one, you got to control the LLC.

12:10

Yes. And | wrote into the, to my own lawyer, | wrote, listen, if I'm him, I'm not gonna do
that. Unless he has protections. | was wondering what protections you might recommend
IBL | allow them? Meaning like, if he kicks me out, then | get paid for my time or

development services?

12:28

Well, not how you guys kick you out at that point? | assume it is, | assume from what
you're saying? You don't want What? You're not going to get kicked out? Why would they

come up,
JO

JO

JO

assumption that we can build 25 storey on the entire footprint of the land. But the city’s
high rise design guidelines, they require towers to be set back from neighboring laws. So
potentially, you can only build 25 storeys on behalf a lot. So the land value is probably
much less than what the owner is anticipating. And maybe the project's not even viable.
So this is a two part question. First part, the real value of the land is ultimately tied to the
entitlements that we can get. What are your thoughts on how we might be able to
negotiate the purchase with the seller given that there's a divergent view of what property

is worth right now?

22:18

Well, that's good. Scott. It's a what are we talking about? Where you're going to get the
entitlements From where? From the city? Okay. The big problem? Yeah. So So | watch
what you're doing is you're asking the city to change your zoning to let you build
something that you wouldn't ordinarily be permitted to build and they'll take a yield, take
some setbacks from somewhere else and say, Okay, give me the right. To build more, but

I'll tie up the other property can't can’t expand beyond what Yeah,

22:46

so So right now the zone for like, maybe six stories, but this the city's official has already
25 stories on on there, which is off the resume. Okay.

22:56

So will you make it subject to zoning? Yeah, that's all you make it subject to zoning. And |
would say, let's say you affect the price, depending on the the minimum that you're going
to get? | don't know what the minimum is. If you say, does the deal work at 25? storeys? |
assume it does. Right. Yeah. All right. But it would work 10 storeys. | don't know. Yeah. You
understand what I'm saying? Yeah, I'm saying now is you just the price depending upon the
value that how the viable viability of the plot to construct something on it Did you think is
viable to work? Whatever it may be if the price is if | can build six stories | got one price Bill
20 stories, a different rifle. 45 stories are got a different price. That's true, the land value
goes up. And this is this is interesting, interesting. It's not as foreign as a concept is one
may think those I've had many done many deals where we where the price depends on
the FAA, right? They are is the what you can build. So you say good if | can get if | if the FA
R is 23 24,000 feet, the depth point then | pay you so much per square foot. If it’s 40,000
feet, I'll pay you much more even proportions not just the difference, but there's a

premium because the higher | can go the more value with a risk. The value the real value
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

14:40

| love you. Victor, you mentioned something | wanted to just bring up to George you said
maybe it's not good to go after a controlling interest in his current LLC which would
obviously the reason | liked that it was because | wanted | want to take over and operate

this property.

14:54

However | have to do. Now you have to do it this way. It’s not liquid. It’s not appropriate,
and not the best thing to do is the worst thing to do is you're going to spend all this time
and effort and make improvements, but you don't have the control. Okay, that's terrible.
Because now now when if it goes very good and looks good, and everything works, you
may get renegotiated and say, you know what the deal or the deal was better than |

thought it was. So that | want to recast it. No way.

15:23

Well, George, my suggestion was to do a lease and an option, as opposed

15:29

to just rail, you want to do a ground lease with an option to buy? That's fine. Okay, | don't

have a problem with that, at that point, just record the option.

15:36

Yeah, | was just saying that if he took over the LLC, then he's taking on potentially some

unknown liabilities?

15:42

Well, | think | can control the LLC, but you start to be able to get representations as to
what liabilities the LLC has, that’s really hard to be booked in records, reps and warranties
and get a certification from a good accountant or what have you that this is what the
bills, what they are what they are. Not, I'm not saying that you shouldn't do that. And it's a
good it's a good way to, it's a good way to do it. And it also is better for them. Because

now they're not going to have necessarily the same tax implications on the sale of the
JO

JO

JO

JO

Die)

03:59

So you can almost start using. You might not be saying to throw away the C folder but

maybe at least delegated

04:05

delegated right or can wait. It’s not critically important because it's it's not it’s not over
effect is not going to affect you on the long run. Because it’s not that important. But the
key is to be able to sort them out into the into what's important. | find most most people
many people, all they do is they pile it all together and say what's let's what came in this |
got to do right a witness came in this game in this game and without prioritizing. If you
don't prioritize you got a big problem. So you have to learn how to prioritize and then and
diligently work on the priority items because that's where your goals are. That's where the
money is. That's where you're going to going to do the best you can have. And don't don't
don't concentrate or even try to concentrate on the items which are least important just

because they're annoying.

04:56

Well, yeah, certainly the the urgency of something that is at a desk line that may be of

lesser importance that urgency certainly masks, the urgency masquerades for importance.

05:06

That's correct. And what | find found out in my practice, and is that what you what you
deem to be an absolute crisis is not a crisis. It's not a crisis in tomorrow, it will be a crisis
either. What it's not a crisis today. But you have to basically prioritize put the things in
order of importance, and focus on that, which is going to do the most for you. It sounds
easy, but it’s not. It’s not at all? Absolutely. It’s not. But it's the work habit, which does,

which, which is critical if you're handling a lot of matters.

05:37

So can you think of an example of something that you that might have at one time, made

it onto your to do list that you consciously got rid of?
JO

JO

JO

JO

Well, yeah, but who signed the contract? The buyer? Okay. No, | said, who signed on

behalf of the seller who made the representation? Oh, yeah.

36:45

Yeah. Would have been this out. Yeah, no, yeah, | guess they're recommending to sue both

the seller and the broker.

38:50

Absolutely. Yeah. Absolutely. And | would say my suggestion, I'm never a huge proponent,
basically, of lawsuits, even though as a lawyer, but in this instance, at that, you certainly
can bring up the question of fraud, fraud in the inducement. When somebody lies to you
want to contract this out, and as a result of that, you do something if they knew that there
was a deficiencies, they have an obligation to bring it to you even though you may not
have found it in your due diligence. Now what this does is that type of a suit Now I'm not
saying that it will be successful doesn't that's that's not the point. But the amount of
damages you have could be very except very extensive. and say well | put my money here
| got to put it somewhere else and made more money and this is you have to be damaged
because now you got me ina situation where you lied to me. And as far as the the broker
being in the same pot, with these with the seller, you got two people that you go to with

it's a It looks like a mess, but it looks it's the type of litigation you can be very successful in

39:59

it. Like one of the things, | think one of the things that's dissuaded them from it is

litigations never quick and easy.

40:06

And don't, don't say quick and easy, right? The question is, at this point, what's going to be
the result? Okay. And the result is based on the facts, which you're giving me at this point
Lucia, just as what they are, there is a legitimate suit for a lot of money. When you talk
about fraud, and you talk because somebody gave you the wrong information, they lied
about a rent roll, they lied about this, and you didn't tell you about it, or the certain things
without the the damages can be there's such a thing as punitive damages, which have
nothing to do with the value of what you lost. But the punitive says that the party or who's

wrong who did the wrongdoing should be penalized just for having done the wrongdoing,
JO

JO

JO

JO

they shouldn't be able to do this to somebody else. So it’s a different action, it's not really
what you lost. It's what, what they should be penalized for having done something terribly
wrong. And you get a good good, a good law firm to give you a nice set of papers. And it
could be up very successful in achieving a result in a relatively short period of time, and
the results that you want. So I'm now what I'm now saying is, if you figure the damages
that you have, or say to me, Well, | don't know what they are, but let's just pick a number if
it 2 million. Yeah. And you start a lawsuit for 20 million, that's going to get somebody's
attention.

41:31

And it's much easier at that point to get a settlement. That's gonna Yeah,

41:35

yeah. Yeah. Because what you're saying is, my actual damages were 2 million, but for
because you lied to me, you you're, I'm entitled to get paid for the fact that you lied to me.
And that’s punitive. That's, that's, that's a that type of litigation. And the, if the papers
really scream, with a with a lot of dollars to you, you're going to get recognition from the
the seller, and certainly the broker who are tied together, that’s even worse, because |
have two people that are involved. And they're going to start pointing fingers at one
another.

42:12

And, you know, the brokers got error and omissions insurance?

42:15

Yeah, well, it doesn't make a difference. You got to miss insurance. Good. But here's your
misuse insurance may not call it certainly doesn't cover punitive damages. True. nature
would cover the actual ones, but then he may have a limitation. So now you may have
insurance for up to 2 million and boom, you are you're suing for 20. I'm just picking
numbers out of there. Sure. But nevertheless, it that now so these got liability to the
insurance company may come in and want to settle. And what happens with the
difference?
JO

JO

JO

JO

that's a wonderful publicity situation, for him to say, hey, look, this is what it's worth today.
But if if we get what we want, this is how much more you're going to get through, you got
a much bigger paycheck coming if you work with me. That's, you know, something that |
think would be be very helpful. And it gets you where you want to be. But you can't have
over you will have overpaid because your prices based on what you can do. Yep. Yep. My

take that solves your problem.

36:41

Yeah, yeah, |

36:41

used to go that way. | love it.

36:45

Okay, next is over to Mike in Phoenix. Now, Mike couldn't join the call. So I'll read the
question for him. Okay, so he has a portfolio of mobile home parks that were purchased
with the help of a family office. What do you go? What do you mean a family office?
What's that? So these are professional money managers that worked for a couple of high
net worth families. Okay. Gotcha, okay. And they basically provided the debt financing at
60, maybe 60, or 62%, loan to cost. And there were lapses in the due diligence and actual
outright misrepresentations by the seller, that were not caught during, during the due
diligence, the net result of which is a whole bunch more extra capital expenditure that was
not planned. The rent rolls were flawed or fraudulent. And the actual occupancy the arcs
did not match the representations of the seller. The the the buyers were not innocent in
this either, in that they really did not, they did not do a good job of the due diligence, they
did cut corners. And at this stage, | think the property's not generating enough cash flow
to service the debt down to the family that's that holds the debts pretty unhappy with it.
They think they have a solution, meaning a turnaround plan, but it's going to mean
extending the note. The lender wants their capital back, maybe the lender is going to sell
the note at which point if that's the case, they're not dealing with the original investor,
they're dealing with an unknown. So right now, the family office is recommending that

they sue the broker for because the broker was in a dual representation situation.

38:32
