JO

JO

JO

the same thing what you're looking for you looking for an investor she said it’s basically
the same concept albeit for slightly different purpose. personal relationship is important.
Yeah, and we've added the the opposite is also true is on another charity which was very
involved with | didn't the personal relates the woman that was the was in charge for some
reason | just didn’t continue the personal relationship. And you know what, let’s stop giving
money to it. Yeah. So they don’t care enough about me to blue understand personal and
to keep in touch, we can forget it there were enough other places that would be more
than happy to take the check. So the opposite they do did the work. And you know what
happened? As soon as as soon as you start to give even giving the donations they they
said put somebody else on the on the on the call and said What happened? Why did you
stop and then you tell them why you stopped and then from then on at that point, they |
want to keep the relationship going. So periodically they, they keep in touch and tell you

what they're doing and whatever is required to keep the relationship alive.

45:13

Right. Very good. Thank you, George. You're welcome. | love that that

45:19

was very much. What did that. So next we have Todd salting are in California, Todd is on
the call, but he’s actually in a noisy environment. So he asked me to ask the question for
him. Okay. So his question is that when you've negotiated real estate purchase
agreements, what are maybe some examples of two or three contract terms that you like
to include, that most attorneys wouldn't? Or would, you know, maybe considered a
typical? Do you have some examples, the contract terms that you've used in the past that

created a tremendous amount of leverage for your clients that are not typical?

45:57

Well, that was a tremendous amount of leverage. That was a typical, you have to really go
into the contract the nature of our contract, and what's involved in order to come up with
a solution. For example, | have put in where, where I'm selling a piece of property, and we
have a contract is supposed to close in 60 days. And | would put in, if it doesn’t close in 60
days, and the buyer wants an extension, I'll give him an extension, but | get a more of a
deposit. So I'll get an additional deposit per 30 days, or whatever. Now, if | put it in the
contract, and he's never used it, | can get it to go around. Now, if he asked for an
extension, at this, I'm not giving you free. So far, you agree to pay another 10% 20%, or

what have you as a deposit, but | built it in initially. So it's uptight of a penalty. But it’s only
JO

JO

on our site. And nurses, have you ever encountered that dilemma? And how did you? The
answer is yes. But let's get you got a couple questions. What do you what do you What's
an inside market? What do you mean by that? So it'd be like a farmers market sort of nice
products. BUTCHER cheese. So local, local church, think of the Chelsea Market in New
York. No, | understand. Okay. Okay. | hear you guys. | appreciate you talking back. It
basically is a market but with the primarily, | would assume for tourists because you don't
have that many people there on a full time basis. Exactly. Say that two and a half million
tourists how we have, how many? How much are people that live there will be about 5000
the next year? Okay, so you got so basically so it's a tourist attraction is, okay. This is a
tourist attraction. It's a tourist attraction. How are you going to sell a condo unit? condo
units will actually be rented as a hotel. We're going to make them out. They're selling him
you're renting them? We are we're renting them. They'll be kind of going out. So it'll be full
operational apartment style hotel rooms. Okay. Total house, three bedrooms, Kitchen
Bathroom. That's okay. Okay. All right. Here's our hearing all of that. And the next thing.
And the next step is is how do you get the town or the village to go along with this
concept? That is they seem to like it so far. As we spoke to a couple of counselors and the
planning committee. They are they understand enough that how they need to keep
people in the town as opposed to just coming and going quickly. You have more time to
spend the more money they'll spend? | understand that? Well. | don't know what to what
you've figured out as far as your rate of return and the projection. But this is a this is a real
hot. This is this is a high risk project. Because you're dealing in in a tourist situation. And
this is how long is the when you say there are two weeks to how many tourists there are or
you basically, you say about 2.5 billion a year? How long has this been going on? What
what's the attraction for the tourist attraction to the tourist is located in the little area that
has ski hills, art, farmers markets, it's a it's a midpoint for travel to different parts of that

province.

22:42

As well as the nice type of people that actually come it’s okay to also 20 minutes from our

capital. So it's not far for city people to be able to travel to

22:52

how long has it been getting the two and a half million for tourists? It's been increasing
between seven and 10%. For the last 15 years, roughly, depending there have been a few
down cycles, where it's increased smaller amounts. But as the and how the tourists handle
down? Are they handled? Yeah, in a way, whether they stay hotel where they have

carddav condo units that are built houses that they create vacation houses and wherever,
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

jo

next thing we have is the next meeting, shall we talk and say, gee, Joe, I'm very sorry. He
didn't know the deal we were talking about. I'm sorry. You'd went into it. It turned out at
that point, | had a 30% profit in two months. | wish we were part of it. That will get their

attention.

42:37

Now that's great. That's great. That's great advice, actually. Yeah, so

42:42

now if we go back into Don't tell him the ones that failed. Failed GEORGE Yeah, but the
ones who are successful say CG | really wish you went into a you missed an opportunity to
do right who would have so next time next time it happens in this would you like me to

contact you if it comes to get they'll say yes.

43:04

Great. Yeah. | appreciate that. Yeah, because a lot of them will say be sure you email me

send me some emails on that. Yeah. And

43:12

the personal relationship is important especially know the family you know this and if you

keep it on a friendly basis

43:20

it works. That's fine. | mean, for example, I'm involved with a lot of charities at this point

and what a major charge every time everything comes up that we're

43:34

about to to make another substantial donation they take me out to a fantastic dinner.
And they talked to me and how are they kid they know my children, the grandchildren,
whatever, whatever it is, and it becomes like friendly. But meanwhile | know they're

looking for dollars which is fine that's the that's what they're doing. And that's good and
JO

JO

a different animal. But it's a it's it’s done differently. There's not like real estate real estate,
you can point to and say this is mine, and it's good, fine binder for tonight's it's my
problem. But generally speaking, it has a more stability than anything in the stock market.
But they're not inconsistent than is not the saying how can | How can | sell one and you
buy another? If they want something that's going to grow? Real Estate is to me is the
answer. If you want something new, it's risky investing in the stock market. However,

having said that, if you're smart, you'll diversify and have a have something in both.

34:44

Now | like to answer that. When the question came in, | thought it was a great question.

And | still think it's a great question, but | love your answer.

34:53

Yeah, | like Yeah. Okay, very good. have you got? Let me get just personal as personally
there's like, a it when practicing law at that point, yeah, if you're a good lawyer, you're
gonna make a lot of money. Question is, what are you going to do with the money? If you
got if you want to build on it, you're gonna have to invest it? Where do you want to invest
it? | have to decide, well invest at this point, you have to figure out, do | want something
with a lot of risk? Or do | want something with not much risk? Or do | want solid quarter
One, and you can split it up, but it doesn't have to be all or nothing. So now | but you have
a financial planner, which | have and very highly recommended anybody that has
substantial amount of money or planning, if you just have a financial planner, and said,
Okay, what do you want? You're looking for long term, you're looking for short term
growth, blah to income, you're looking for long term growth? What are you looking for?
And what are you figuring for the future? How much money do you want earn interest, and
then they can split it up 10% here towards the 20%. There. So you now have covered a
marketplace with the with dollars that makes the most amount of sense. Part of it could
be real estate. And what | did, personally was | took so knowing having been involved in
real estate, | took a lot of the money that | was making the law firm, and | invested in real
estate. | invested it in with comfort with with entities that knew what they were doing in
real estate. And | knew that because | was the lawyer. And they were building, they were
involved with residential construction in the city of Manhattan. And | said, Good, | would
like to buy parties, I'd like to be part of your Trent part of your entity. I'll put up my share to
money, you won't hear from me, if you have a capital call, I'm there. And I'm now just a
equity investor. And | had face because | saw what they did. And | liked it. | didn't want to
control because these guys are good. And | had full faith. And it turned out to be

extremely successful over a period because real estate has appreciated in value. They
JO

JO

JO

JO

knew what they were doing. It was mostly residential structures, everybody has to live in
that and got very hot. And as a result, these investments as small as they are, like 2% of
this company, and 3% of that company turned out to be worth a lot of dollars. So that
was my feeling. Did | take flyers? Yes. Other time, but it never took one it was going to

break the bank. So it's a question of balance. | love it.

37:32

Okay, let's go to the next question. Next question is from Tammy Mitchell. Tammy, you're

on the line? How are you doing, George? I'm doing good. Tony, how are you doing?

37:40

Great. Great. | love all the wisdom, | was just writing down a whole bunch of notes. Thank

you so much. It's always great to take away some nuggets from you. Good.

of 5a

It's good to refresh your memory. Every once in a while something will come back and say
let me look at my notes. And you'll find out it means more meaningful at a later point in

time than it was when you heard it the first time.

38:04

Definitely, definitely. | agree. And, and | think there's something to be said about writing it
down. It just sinks into the brain a little bit more? For sure. Well, | have a question | would
love your thoughts on | have the good fortune of getting to network with communicate,
connect with many high net worth individuals. And as you know, many of those people,
they're very busy. They're being pulled in multiple directions at all times. And they get very
discerning with their time and what they what they take the time to invest in. | find that
when | have the opportunity to speak with them in person at an event on the phone or at
dinner or something, they seem genuinely happy to discuss the real estate projects that
I'm working on and, and express interest in potentially getting involved. However, I'm kind
of curious what your thoughts might be something that might be able to help me convert
some of these maybe more effectively, | find when | correspond by by email that the
results are less predictable. And || am hoping to get some more timely responses and
more call to action and wondered if you have any advice on how to communicate by

email in a way that could elicit a response without seeming pushy or at worst case.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

09:35

you there? All right, there we go. Hi, George. Hi, Dave. How are you? Good. How are you?
I'm superbe. All right. Hey, we've got a situation. It's a large project. We just recently got a
term sheet. It's a loan of the 73 73% loan to cost. That's a little bit unconventional interest
rate is a bit of a premium and it's calculated at viborg plus 575. So totals around 8%. The
loans non recourse, which is one of the reasons why we're going this route, it's a
construction deal. But it can contains completion guarantees. The completion guarantees
requires the GC to post a PMP bond.

10:27

What Victor, what is the PMP? Well, this is a it’s a victor Victor on are working together on
this.

10:35

So this is a performance and completion on it.

10:39

Okay, okay. So right, so you got to buy that he’s gonna complete within as long as he gets
the money that he’s promised us as a construction. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So the question is,
what are your thoughts on on a completion guarantee? And as as a deal sponsor like this?
Are we taking any undue risks? what's what's your sponsor? Who is the who is the
sponsor? Who is the who's who's who's taking down a loan? What is it? What is the
corporation? So Victor, Victor, and | and not not only know, is there six, six sponsors, but
this one, correct? Well, but why is under the only says this point, the party that's taking the
loan, | assume is an entity, a corporation of some sort? An LLC, an LLP? Not you
personally, right? Or an LLC? All right, so So now the question, so you got an LLC, at this
point, that that basically is on the hook for the loan. So when you say it's non recourse, its

recourse as to the as to the entity but not recourse as

11:43

to the sponsor? It's only recourse, recourse to the sponsors insofar as the completion

guarantee.
_)O

_)O

JO

JO

short term borrowing. It depends on the nature of the project, usually, but it’s usually short
term because it's only during the course the construction is not until you ultimately have
the takeout. So it's not something that’s going to continue for a long period of time. But
it's just it’s a secondary loan. And as such as a secondary rate, there's nothing wrong with
it. This is assuming that the results are such that you can build it into your costs. It doesn't,
it doesn't kill the deal. It just helps you out that the rather than raise the equity, which we
don't have the equity or if you had to borrow, you might have problems with the equity or
giving up the equity, which could be worse than Yeah, short term financing or a bridge
loan or mezzanine financing. Call it what you like. I've seen it dozens and dozens of times
and it certainly works. Okay. Have you ever on the mezzanine financing, one thing is how

about is the mezzanine financing, recourse,

16:23

the mezzanine would be recourse, but in that particular instance, it’s recourse on 5 million

not recourse on like 30

16:31

Yeah, it did, that's fine. It's not, that’s not unusual. | just feel just this You didn't even
mention it, | just wanted to know one way, typically it is recourse now, because they're
taking a secondary risk. Correct. So as a result, that’s less secure than the ones who have
the original construction. So I've seen it there a lot of companies that do it and get very
well paid for it. And it's also a way of raising equity, raising money in lieu of taking it out of
equity or borrowing wherever you get tapped to borrow to get into the equity. So instead,
if you don't have the cash on hand, this is a good way to do it. George, if you are vetting a

mess player?

17205

How do you know that you're working with someone? | mean, yes, obviously, they're going
to perform and they're going to fund the project. How do you know you're not dealing

with someone who's a vulture? And who's setting you up to fail?

igs?

Well, that’s it to reputation. | mean, what have they done before financial statements that

you can get for them to see what what their assets were? How have they done, they done
JO

JO

_)O

And | think that they see a lot see through a lot of this and they will they're going to when
they have to make a decision in 2020. They're going to say later say, Hey, what did you
do? What did you accomplish? And if the president accomplished something, that's that's
good. That's what they realize. If the if the Congress can't get their act together, and they
can't, then basically, it's going to be it’s going to fall on their shoulders. | think that the
democrats are going to overplay their hand. And that's a that’s unfortunate. | think it did
to be nice, nice if we had a government where people could work together instead of

attacking one another. It is it is, you

07:39

know, one of the things that I've noticed from having met a number of folks within the
Trump Organization, whether it's yourself whether it's Mitch, whether it's Donaldson, Eric, |
mean, I've really been impressed always with the high caliber of the people, many of the

people that, you know, I've run into have long standing tenure in their position.

08:03

This mort, this was a heavy organization was was was very well run, made up making a pot
full of money. It's a top notch organization always has been they always got good people,
they knew what they were doing, and the results of that. But you know, when it comes to
the pressure, what have you or who was then our business people, so they don't recognize
you as somebody who's doing your greatness. But any of his or any of his hotels were
having a top notch, they got good ratings and good. They're they're run at the top of the
middle. And, you know, the good getting good, good building good business. They know
how to run a hotel or run or whatever operation happens at the golf course or what have
you. Top Notch people in this very, very successful doing that. And, you know, but that
that was the what they did before they before. That's how he made his money. You don't
build wealth like that by accident? There's no way No, not at all. In one case, he always
had a very good organization, and good people, good people involved with it and his
major attribute choices, what do | think is the best attribute? He has the ability and the
willingness to delegate authority and let the people the the delegates has already run
with the ball so that he doesn't have to get directly involved. And you can build a

tremendous organization if you've got good people. That's the story with him.

09:28

All right. We're good one. Let's go to Dave Zook. The first few questions are from Dave.

Dave, are
JO

JO

JO

be here again. So George, this past week, | had a quite an interesting conversation, | met
with Mitch Mitch Garrett, who's currently the VP of hotel operations in the Trump
Organization. And that's a role he’s been in since 2015. And we're talking about, you know,
what's going on in the news and all of that sort of thing. And his perspective is that so
much of what's being reported in the news is just utterly ridiculous. Right? How does this
happen? | mean, you know, the media have been so unfair to the Trump family to the to

the whole Trump Organization.

01:30

What's your perspective, the perspective is as, as far as the why the media is and the bulk
of the media. A half done, understood, understand where we're coming from the media,
the bulk of the media, | would say a good exception of Fox News, what the rest of the data
point they were caught. By unawares, that Donald became president, they never thought
he's going to become president, they had predicted he's going to lose in a tremendous by
a tremendous amount. The, all of the polls indicated he was way down in the polls, and
they loved it. That was fine. It'll be nice. He's always been a controversial character,
especially how he got nominated. And he was good fodder for him. But then when he got
elected, now, all of a sudden, they were dead wrong. So what are we going to do? So
somehow they have to indicate to do is a fluke or will attack him and attacking Donald
Trump is, is good news, saying something nice about him is not. So they basically will have
a tendency to say something not not nice, because that's the way it this way, they're not
reporting the news. As is impartial, they always take a stance. And certainly anti Trump
and one of the problems are not our problems. One of the things is what he's attacked, he
fights back, and they don't like somebody who fights back. But it does prolong the battle.
And this continues on and it will be through his presidency. Maybe at some point the the
media will recognize some of the things he did, but | think more important is the people in

the United States will recognize it. And they will see whether or not he gets reelected.

03:14

If you listen to some of the news media, you think he’s a minutes away from being

impeached?

03:19

Of course. Yeah, but that's understand, in order to truly evaluate it, you have to
understand the media is they will they need audience. And that's they get audience, they

get sponsors, sponsors, they get money, the only way to get audience to that point is
where they put up now they don't drop the bomb. There are a few cottages, but not
enough to supply and demand. Okay, | hear you. Do you think there's a way to make this
happen? Or is it just a risk? | think it’s a risk. There's no way to happen. It's a big gamble.
It's a gamble as to as to the continuation of the of the tourists to the visitors whether or
not they are going to comment to that and stay in that particular area. And what you've
got basically is recreation. But there are also places that recreation. And you're

dependent that if you're if you're relying on the fact that they're skiing in the area, and
maybe skiing goes down in popularity, which it has. So it's a type of type of vacation
situation is that a lot of gut problems, potential problems, but it also has a reward. Now
the reason it makes it less risky is the fact that it is actually 20 minutes or more capital. So
it is a close but also sorry, it also has the largest Scandinavian Spa in North America,

which is also continuing to grow substantially otherwise a good process. Yeah, those are
good places. And you know, yeah, that makes it but the end result is this, you know, you
paint your mind takes your choice, | think is actually but it also could have a big reward.
So that’s where Plan B comes in with the actual having the units as condo units because
we can sell out the condos. If need be to stop Today's and will not sell out the condos
who's gonna buy the condos? The there's a lot of people who want to live there who can't
afford to the average home price there is unaffordable for a local market. But these are so
these are these are you talking about? These are the people that are going to want to live
in the village? Yeah, there's a year is a year round. These are your rounders. Yes, not the
not the visitors. Not the visitors. If that's the case of tourism drops, there's people looking
to live in this town because it is that type of a nice type of town. But safety though, have
you encountered this kind of an issue before in your currency class? How did you guys
handle it, but handle it this point on the ones that they were they took the risk if the risk if
it turned out fine, you your hero, if it doesn't turn out bad you're not. It's a gamble. Because
of the nature of it. Primarily This is because it’s a tourist, it’s a tourist or a niche market. As
long as the market is there, and the product is there is fine. But if people change to
difference, it could be very hazardous. And you've got examples all over the place at this
point, you know, like take Las Vegas, Las Vegas is a niche market. But boy you could buy
people went to went over there lost their shirt at Desert for tacos. Nobody went there. Till
we showed it so they got all these buildings and you could buy them a relatively cheap.
Another one you could take in New York in this city in the United States with Miami.
Definitely a vacation market at that point, overbuilding the people didn’t come down for
second homes, the concept of having a second home more or less disappeared for a while
he suffered. But that's the nature of that business is not like building a a residential
building in an area at that point where you're always going to have somebody lived there.
So you say like a good plan C would be to keep our eyes open to watch how the market
grows, and things start to shift to move it and if you can, basically, if you can figure out
how to build it in stages, as is necessary. That's great. Good, so you can do it and see what

it is or the what what will what will work on a short term basis. And you don't know.
JO

JO

JO

27:18

Now there are reports for example, you know, years ago or not everything every
development has to have golf courses. Now golf is already designed with some a down
trend. People don't want to spend that kind of money and they don't. So therefore having
a golf facility is not a major attraction. So because times the Times have changed. So this
is similar situations you have that is whether or not the the fact that the tourism is going
to continue. However, having said that, there are areas it said with jab dunwell and
continue to do well. Certainly in Colorado with with a lot of the ski resorts has done
extremely well and continue to do well. And because they people, but having said that
most of the people that are there are not visitors they own houses, they're not always seen
as my period of time. Well, that’s always seen as an increase in population goes that way
substantially as well with a new modern thinking council before the time that would build
30 homes now building well over 1000 within the next year. Great. So there is a bit of
growth coming that way. And because it gets hit assuming that and assuming assuming
they have the sales there, that’s that basically going to make it the more activity you
have, the better it's going to be for your facility. You need people so it says you know what
| tell you. It has it has a lot of pluses. It has a lot of substantial minuses. You got to keep
your eye on it and decide whether or not this is the route that you want to go. First. |
appreciate it. Yeah, that's a great, great answer. | wasn't, | didn't think of it in that form.
And that's really a good, good thing to think about. Appreciate it. Okay. Good luck.

Thanks, George. I'll let you know how it goes. Okay, be interested. Talk soon.

29:19

Okay, so next. What next is a question that actually independently came in from two
separate individuals, both Ed and Joel. And both of them work for Wall Street firms. They
earn quite well, selling paper assets to investors to Wall Street clients, or both of them
independently for their own account, choose to invest in real estate and they're both
experiencing a bit of an ethical conflict, doing their job for which they make very good
money and their own investment strategy, what's fundamentally in disagreement with
what they're selling. So | think both of them are trying to figure out how they navigate up
path to living and working, where there isn't that gap between what they're saying and

what they're doing any thoughts on how they

30:08

well know what they're saying or what they're doing, you talk to talking about two

different products. And the products don't, don't mix in Wall Street or the investments that
Ollee

PC+-+December+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross+

ae Wed, 9/8 1:22PM @ 53:54

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, question, point, real estate, mezzanine financing, george, loan, money, good, contract,

sponsors, project, tourists, selling, problems, trump, mortgage, mezzanine, happen, continue

SPEAKERS

Robert

© Robert 00:00

Hey syndication memory club. It's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

lo 00:06
Well, good evening, George. Hi, Victor. How are you? I'm very well yourself. Good. Fine.
Very good. All ready for the holidays? Oh, yeah. The hospital as you say they come faster
now eg. Somehow somebody seems to steal a month. | know the feeling. Yeah. Alright,
well,

lo 00:23

let's get started. Okay, so welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with
Mr. George Ross. George has been in business for over 60 years, who taught at the law
school at NYU for over 20 years, the author of two best selling books on real estate and
negotiation, married for 66 years, and worked in the Trump Organization for many years
co star of the TV show The Apprentice, so we're super fortunate to have access to his

wisdom and experience. Welcome. Welcome to this month's call, George. Great. Good to
JO

JO

_)O

manipulative? Well.

39:31

You gave me 233 curveballs in a row so far. Okay. Now, the one of the problems you have
with email is the its lack of a person. There's no personality, email has no personality.
There's no body language. There's no friendliness that's involved. It's just a blanket
statement. And people can interpret it any way they want, whatever time they want, and if
they're not interested in what's what you're what the email says. It's A time, then you've
lost them. And that's hazard which you have. Now, if you have something that is that does
have a time element, specific time element, and you want to put the time element on it,
then then you can contact that's one way of getting the attention of the recipient of the
email and say, Look, | have this following transaction, this is good, here are all the terms.
Basically, it is selling out. If you want to participate in it, | must, you must notify me within
10 days five days of what have you otherwise, otherwise, | will assume you're not
interested. Now that will probably elicit a response if they are interested. And if they're not
interested, do you have no response? What you didn't have any way if you didn’t put a
time limit on it. But having said that, the key to to making a good relationship is to get
involved with the clients, but not on a business relationship. You have to find out what are
they interested in? Are they interested in sports have done to have children? Do they go to
the interested in concerts? What do they do? When you set it up that we go to
periodically, you'll have meetings or you'll go out to dinner, and something that they
would be interested in at this, the more contacts you have, which are not of a direct
business nature that solidifies them with you. You're more of a friend and you are a party,

which you look into make an investment?

41:37

sure if | agree, | agree. | think Mr. would tell you that's actually something | spent a lot of
time and energy on very intentional about authentically creating some great
relationships. | and | have a lot of people when | meet with them, they'll say, hey, email me
something over. But | think you're right, that being specific about the timeline and the
urgency and like you said, if they're if they're not going to reply anyway, what's the harm

in putting some? You know, they either are or they aren't?

42:09

Yeah, and then periodically, yeah, but he's setting the time element that you have is there.

So now you set a time element at this point, and they totally ignored it. Alright, now, the
JO

11:49

Understood, understand, and you also have right, but but then to also have a guarantee
is, is that what you're getting from the from the construction from the construction? Right?
Yes. So I've got two guarantees, in addition, and you also have a performance bond,
which the which would, somebody says they guaranteed that the building will be
complete, as long as the construction met as people get their money. So you've got a belt
and suspenders what what more do you need? Yeah, so the next, right along with that,
that one of the questions at this point, if you if, if you are, if you stand in line, behind
everything that you got, are you taking an undue risk? The answer is no. Okay? The
answer is no. You're not taking undue risk. And you're not going to be there? Because you
have you have too many places in front of you. Now, one of the one of one of the carve
outs or one of the things one of the terms in the loan, it also calls out that and that is any
one of the sponsors commits fraud or declares bankruptcy and this country in some other
in some of the deal, you know, not even related to this. No, no, that's that that's, that's
another overreaching. Because they're not. They're not relying on the sponsors at that
point for financial capability, they're relying upon that the thing gets constructed their
liability is, in fact, if the if the thing doesn’t get built, doing it, | think there's only | think,
basically overreaching. And as far as the sponsors are concerned, or if there were one
sponsor, | could understand it. If there’s more than one sponsor, then they're overreaching.
Because the fact that one of the sponsors might have a financial problem, doesn't
shouldn't shouldn't wreck the whole transaction, the other should be responsible for it. So
you think this is a that's a that’s a thing that we should negotiate out? Yes. In the event,
and what if they say, Sure, yeah, if it's fraud, but if it’s fraud, which affects the project,
that's different, but if it’s just throw, it doesn't affect the project, and it shouldn't, shouldn't
be anything else. If the die yo just they just a bad reputation, or another project, which has
nothing to do with this. If it adversely affects the completion of the project, or the least,
the fact that it will be completed and ultimately sold because this somewhere there's a
takeout, then | can see that. But other than that, it shouldn't. It shouldn't be that, although
it's not a typical, it’s typical. But it's typical for a single sponsor, not for a car but not for
combination of sponsors. And certainly, this is non recourse. It almost turns out to be
they've been taking a non recourse loan or making good recourse. That was a concern.
Yeah. But But you pay paying either rate as if it was a recourse loan. Okay. Right along
with that, on the same project, and second question is that we have received received an
offer for mezzanine financing. The benefit is that we can leverage an additional portion of
the project without having to give up equity. The rate is close to 14%. It would replace
about five, 5 million in the capital stack. But the project would generate enough value. So
even after the mezzanine is paid off, when the first and second mortgage gets converted
to permanent financing, the project should be leveraged around 70 to 72% loan to value.

What are your thoughts on a mezzanine financing like this? It's another cost. It's a short
you have in the in, in the investment strategy and companies or growth warehouse is a
world unto itself, then basically, talking about value talking about stock price talking
about the what happens in the future. And it depends on a number of factors. But it’s, it’s
not factors which can be controlled by it’s controlled by the marketplace, or it's controlled
by many things, many facilities are made things that happen, that you have no control
over, such as the economy. How would you viewed whether or not that the rates, interest
rates go up, but did that whereas real estate is a different world, it's not the same. But real
estate has one big advantage. It’s always there. It doesn’t move. So it has value and will
continue to have value and we're running cycles, but it never really gets wiped out. It
couldn't go down in value. But over a period of time, traditionally, it's gotten higher value,
we don't always take into into account inflation automatically. So it’s a different animal.
They're not inconsistent, they're just two it’s two separate products. One is one is sold on
the one the the the as far as the stock market is concerned, so is sold on promise future or
what have you. Some products, of course, is sold on return. But even then on the return is
the how you have a return over a period of time, based on the track record of the
company that’s giving you the return. Real estate is a different world different world. It's
based on what you can do with the real estate and how much income you could get or
kind of what utilization you could have over a short period of time and over a long period
of time, you can be fairly certain that if you fit put put it in the right place, and it's not
movable, then it that it can turn out to be something very successful. If you pick the right
spot, you're going to be very successful and pick the wrong spot you're not. But it’s not
like we have more control over it than you do on a on the paper assets, as you call them.
You put you have no control over. So it’s not not an ethical question. It's they're selling two
different products. So there really is no conflict. There’s no conflict. It's not an ethical
conflict. One year one in you selling you're selling, you're not selling, you're promoting
something that you have that you think is good, but you have no control over but you've
done the research, and you think it's a good investment. So I'll invest in General Motors or
invest in this in this industry, I'll invest in a high tech or a new company starting high tech,
because | think it will go good. And | got a chance to make a real real killing. So I'm not
looking to to say I'll make 10% or 15% on the money, but I'll make 100% over a period of
three years with 300%. It’s got a greater potential, but also the greater risk because it
may not happen. Real Estate doesn’t usually have that risk. But it also doesn’t have the
return. So it's a you know, it's we're talking two different products, but they're not
inconsistent. They're just two separate products. That makes a lot of sense. And you find
the same thing. No, you find the same thing in the what you call the paper on Wall Street,
they sell stocks and they sell bonds. The stocks have an equity position, the bonds don't,
although some of them are convertible and could be, but they don’t. But meanwhile, it's a
fixed return. So that you know the company is going to pay it. And very often the bonds
are guaranteed somewhere some entity guarantees. So you're making a loan, which is

relatively secure. When you buy a stock, you're not making a loan. It’s not secured. So it's
JO

JO

this briefly before. And make sure that they're going to pay on time to go to show up

when they have to show up, then otherwise, | don't know how you're going to get the
whole the mezzanine loan, but they get it in pieces. So if you get a thesis this then the UFC
that they meet the timetable will give you the pieces otherwise, if this if they're going to
give it to you, maybe they have to bank it. In other words, maybe at that point, they have
to put a put a shirt or certain trust funds, you know, so it’s you know, it's there. It depends
on the reputation. Same thing, if you're dealing with a bank, it depends on the reputation.
Anybody gives your construction loan? The question is, yeah, are they going to perform
any other things we should be watching out for with mezzanine financing? No, not really
accepted, it's good. It's a good source of raising capital. Because if you do this probably
do a project and it works out and the mezzanine financing was fine, and they got paid
within the rate, they were accustomed to do more of it, because they think you know what
you're doing. And also at that point, this gives them an opportunity to get a higher rate
than they would ordinarily get to because it if it were a primary loan instead of a
secondary loan. So a lot of companies that do this, they do it very well. And depending
upon the how those how much shortfall you have in your first mortgage or your
construction loan, mezzanine financing becomes a critical becomes important, because it
is good, you know, otherwise, you could have a big gap between the construction
financing and the actual cost of construction. That makes sense. Thank you. You're

welcome, George. Yep. Okay,

19:01

next we have Patrick and Matthew. Is there hurry quiet? See if they're on the line. Patrick

here on line.

19:11

Sorry. Sorry, guys. | was trying to unmute and perfect. Thanks, Matt. Go ahead. Good
evening, George. How are you? I'm fine. Matt, how are you? Okay, so today, George, your
question is about bringing a new product to a niche market. My partners and | are
working to bring a development project to market that has never seen one of this
magnitude. setting is a small mountain village that has approximately two and a half
million tourists per year. The population demographic is educated upper mid to high
income health or well environmentally conscious type of hipster. Our project is 100,000
square foot mixed commercial building. It could be three storeys the top to a residential
condo type, totaling 54 units. The ground floor would be an inside market designed to
attract tourism as well as apply the local population. The question is how do we bring The

largest building ever conceived in this little village to fruition and keep Council and locals
coming up with something scandalous or low down at this point. Nobody likes to hear
that everybody that somebody is doing a good job, that doesn't bring in the audience. But
at this point, given me something something negative, and they'll chew on it for a day or
two days, or three days or a week or something with the family. They'll take anything at
that point as long as it's anti Trump, which is unfortunate, but that’s the way it is, indeed.
So how do we make sense of what we're hearing? Does it make sense of what you're
hearing? Ignore most of it. In other words, they when | say ignore most of it, the Russia
thing is nothing. That's a nothing except it's a it’s highlight. And it’s been a big publicity.
And if they don't come up with something which they have to come up with, at this point,
they're gonna they have spent millions of dollars investigating something. He didn't
collude with Russia, not there is no such thing as collusion, but he didn't. Did Russia
interfere in the election? Yes. Did they interfere in your let anybody's elections? Yes,
Canada doesn't make a difference who it is. They're going to lose the fear. We interfere by
growth hacking or whatever else it is in China and others are going to, that’s what they're
going to do. That's going to be standard practice. But did he did he do it in in connection
with Trump? No, that makes sense. That makes sense. Yeah, but that's so you see it and if
you look at everything that has come out of it, you know, you're always two years, what
has come out that indicates Did he basically was in cahoots with Russia to bid for this
winning election? was it doing the election? | haven't seen anything really? Yeah. Nothing.
There isn't there isn't anything? Would they have preferred to have him instead of Hillary,
of course. But why is it any? Why is it any different? | mean, I'm sure now, if you took our
votes as to who would like to be in the EU in the UK, other than may you'd find other other
candidates as well? So it depends on which one did you like? So is this if it was a choice
between | think the Russians would have been happier, happier me saying they could deal
with Trump easier than they could deal with the with Hillary. And that that was their their
feeling. So if they had to go one way or another, which they should, should, and there's
nothing wrong with it. There's nothing wrong with a country or a leader of a country at
that point, siding with one particular candidate. Nothing wrong with that. If they do
something illegal, that’s different, but if they just have a tendency to like one better than
the other, why not? There’s nothing, nothing criminal, nothing wrong with it. And
nevertheless, this is the the if the media isn't because that's inappropriate, it's
inappropriate. But that doesn't make it. Make it so. So it's a To me, it's much ado about
nothing. | mean, there's things there yet people lied, but you if you look good. People lie
before you're before the grand jury, where is the actual crime other than they lie, or they
didn't know certain things? Or they were memory. But where is the physical crime, that
that hasn't come out. So it’s a process crime. So But nevertheless, the media loves it. And
at the very high up, as long as it's somebody that can be connected, either remotely or in
a different way that the closer you get to Trump that's good, then it’s good news. And
that's what they think. | think that the people that the people in the United States are
smarter than that. And that's what happened when they that's how Donald got elected.
JO

Die)

JO

50:01

Absolutely, absolutely. And then timely manner. And the way they if you don't provide in a
timely manner, what happens some type of a penalty involved, if my mortgage rate went
up, you pay the additional mortgage rate. toads, good go on either side. depending upon
who is injured, the injured party is entitled to some type of a remedy doesn't necessarily
have to be money, but it could be money. But meanwhile, this for some consideration, but
if you put it in the contract initially, it's it. It's there, but nobody is charged. It doesn't cost
anybody anything at that time. So it’s painless to say, I'm not going to do that I'll be I'll act
in good faith. On the other hand, if you don't put it in, and somebody doesn't act in good
faith, now, what are you going to do when they don't act in good faith? How are you going
to enforce it? without creating a bra brouhaha? | love that, that that changes the way of
thinking, yeah, it could be good either side, could be either side, depending upon how
what's important to the buyer, what's important to the seller, for example, as far as the
buyer is concerned, and you say the seller has to do due diligence, hey, if you you made
out if you've got a mortgage commitment, and you pay dollars for that commitment, and
it's about to expire, or it's about to change, you're injured if the seller didn't do what
they're supposed to do. So now you can provide that, hey, if you didn't do what you're
supposed to do, and I'm injured by | lost my mortgage or the interest rate went up, you
pay the interest rate. Now, if you do that, at the time the contract is drawn, there's not a
dispute, because they're not going to do they're not going to say I'm not gonna do that.
So therefore, you don't have a problem once you try to get it at a later point in time. And
now it becomes a bone of contention, because you're asking for something that was not
originally part of it when, and it's meaningful, but the other side says, No, | didn't do it.
Why should | pay for it?

52:00

That's a great question then. And an even better answer.

52:04

Well, because you can do it the contract contracts point to do it. But the thing is to do it in
the contract in the original contract, when the contract is signed, what's important is if
you're the buyer side, what's important to me is the buyer, if I'm on the seller, side, what's
important to me on the seller, so is the buyer, if are important on this on the reseller for the
seller side, if the buyer supposed to do something, they don't do it, they get penalized
somehow. But that’s what the contract says. So if you want to know the 30 days, here's

what happens. You pay more the price went up, or you got to pay for the hotel rooms,
JO

well, whatever it is, but you do it in the contract. Works doesn't work for both sides,
depending on which side you're on what's important than the telly the other side. Good.
This is what you say you're going to do if you don't do it, what happens something's got to
happen. Nothing horrendous. I'm not talking about a penalty, a horrendous penalty, but
I'm talking about some type of remuneration or to make up for the fact that you have

been injured.

53:10

That's pure gold, George. Yep. Okay, well, we're pretty much at the top of the hour. | don't
think we grandpa questions we didn't get to but we'll carry them forward to next month.
Great. So have a great holiday and great holiday Merry Christmas and let me know when
we what what's the date in January? Right? Definitely. We'll do that and if | don't talk to
you before your birthday, happy birthday. Thank you much. Okay. Okay, have a good
night. Have a good night. Bye for now.

Robert 53:37
There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio comm make sure

you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful
syndicating
JO

a penalty if somebody does something wrong, or something went out went out of whack.
So when you put it in, it's not meaningful, because it’s not happening. However, at a later
point in time, it stops the argument. So somebody says, Well, | want another 30 days, and |
say good. So you got to give me another, another 15% the deposit on the contract? What
do you mean, | Why should | give you that? | think that you're arguing? Whereas if | put it
in the contract initially, there'd be no argument. | like that. So would you say you got the
you got performance provisions? You got all by all sorts of things? And the question also
good faith where I've had in many situations, where it’s subject to the buyer getting a
appropriate mortgage, or a certain amount, the bank, then | want to put in good faith,
that they will make what they have to do to applications, they have to file on a timely
basis with the bank, and keep me advising, | want to know what the bank was. And they
have to keep me advised to see that they did what they're supposed to, they have to file
financial statements, so that they just can't say, | didn't get the loan from the bank. So
therefore, we don't close. Now | can say, Well, wait a minute, just did you do everything
you were supposed to do. And if | saw they didn't, then I'm then different, we got a breach.
I'm not giving you back your money because you didn't do what you're supposed to do.
However, if you did do what you're supposed to, it's fine. So you keeping them intact, and
keeping him in involved in the contractual arrangement? Because you're but you're not
penalizing them, unless they have done something wrong. And when you ask for it in the
first instance, it's something they say, of course, I'm going to do. So it's not something for
you that posing an objectionable arrangement, or something that they can do, or you're
doing is saying, | want to make sure you're you're you're living up to your end of the
bargain. Wow, those are two amazing nuggets. I'm blown away that those are really good.
Yeah. It's not. It's not specific to be specific to a given situation. When | say it’s the given
situation, if you want to delay on the contract, at that point, you got to notify me 10 days,
or 20 days before the due date. If you notify me 20 days before the due date, you give me
additional deposit. So that may never happen. But meanwhile, it’s good. It's nice to know
and you put something on the other side. Now if somebody says okay, | want to delete a
contract is well what we were supposed to tell me that 20 days ago, what happened? And
you're immediately putting them on the defensive. So you can put these provisions in and
they're fine because they're meaningless at the time they are made, but they could be
meaning meaningful at a later point in time when something came up that was

unforeseen.

49:47

So if we flip that around, let's say you're on the buyer side, and the seller owes you some
due diligence, would you would you say that the seller has to provide these items in a

timely manner.
