JO

JO

Die)

JO

JO

47:39

next, let’s go to Billy in Nashville. We're starting to run out of time here. So | don't know

that we're going to get through all the questions today. But Billy, are you on the line?

47:47

Okay, let's do it. Let's do it and do the best we can and what you don't have the next time.

A7:33

Okay, so Billy, I'm not hearing you very clearly. Can you get closer to your mic? Yes. Much
better.

47:58

This rasa he’s so much for for taking the time I've done first of all, you gotta call me
George. You call me Mr. Ross. We're not gonna stop. Yes, sir. George. That's my dad's
middle name. So we like to take the time I've taken two pages of notes here. A little
background on me. I'm a commercial lender. And then there's a small investment my own
syndicator a first apartment complex. Now about to close on a office complex 30 days or
so. And I'm still relatively newer investor. So the question there is if you're newer investor
syndicator if the deal allows, should you tilt the returns stronger to the investor pool rather
than yourself to gain more confidence in your, in your delivery in branding yourself or to

your band? In a normal realm of returns?

48:57

Well, guys, so | went this way at the last thing is that there is no such thing as a normal
realm of returns. All right, depends on the degree of risk and you and the reward that's
involved. But nevertheless, what you raise is, is a good one. But you say syndicates What?
| understood, | think from what you're saying and tell me if I'm wrong, is you go out and
find a project or you find a something that you think is worthwhile developing and then
go you get a group of people to invest in it and you make it go, am | right? Yeah, | mean,
this can be a full on syndication, like you normally we talked about in apartments or just
get okay. Together of friends and family and yeah, but what who got the deal? | do. Okay,
that's the answer. So you would just go out and get the deal and then you're good to go.
To get people to invest in it. Yeah. Right. Okay. That's the typical syndication. That's fine.

Now. When you do this, how much time do you spend in preparing a business plan? hours
JO

JO

JO

and you show them all the benefits. If you build it, if you build it there, you build a storage
facility. And now you say here's your choice, you've got the option. You got the benefits if |
build it. And meanwhile, look at this piece of piece of junk now. And the blighted has on
your city. Which do you want? That's the specifiche judgment. Okay, good. All right. Yes,

sir. Thank you very much. You're welcome.

23.39

Okay, next, we'll go to Cara Lee Carrie, you're on the phone.

23:43

Yes. Hello. Can you hear me? Perfectly? Yes, | can hear you. Well, thank you very much for
taking our call and for your time today. Much appreciated. Yeah, not a problem after you
do it. Yeah, so | have a situation with my family and our business. So I've been assisting
my parents in an ad hoc sort of way over the last couple of years, with their assets in
investment management, tax optimization, corporate structuring estate planning those
types of things. And our family as a just a bit of background consists of my mum and dad,
myself and my older brother. And we have some shared investments and shared
businesses that we're involved in with each other. My parents would like me to move into
a more formal and compensated role in that same area of tasks. They need greater
assistance, managing their affairs and making sure that their estate and their affairs are in
order according to their wishes. And then their their assets are repositioned to provide
cash flow to provide them with income for life. So they are very unlikely to engage with an
outside person to fill this role. It’s basically New York or nothing. So the challenge is that
they have a somewhat strict into relationship with my brother, as do |, however, | feel it's
important that my brother has a voice at that table and that he's also needs to be made
aware that I'm moving into this more formal and compensated role. And I'm experiencing
some, you know, resistance within myself to engaging my brother in having that kind of
conversation and moving towards having facilitated family discussions around these
issues. So | need suggestions from you, and how | can move forward with the work well,
attempting to minimize discord in the family between myself and my brother, or between
my brother and my parents. And I'm concerned that by formalizing disservice to my
parents that I'll do, it will highlight the distance in my brother's relationship with them.
We're bringing up other difficult family dynamics and running the risk of damaging family

relationships. So what advice do you have for us?

25:55
JO

JO

JO

That's right. Doesn't have to be forever. Don't bet the ranch on it. But | look at it what
you're saying there are so many companies, which have built their reputation on a
product. | mean, it's or even a name. | mean, look at this. There's a company, | don't know
if you're familiar with it called smuckers. All right, making food products. And what they
say is, with a name, like smuckers, the product has to be good. Okay, and that's made it
there, and the product is good. But they got the recognition, people will recognize the
name of what it is. So you would with whatever you're doing in your business, you create
the brand, with recognition, and you can do certainly can do it globally. And you can
license it and the whole thing if you're doing something different than other people doing.
Maybe yours is a better, better, better, honey. It’s it's, it comes from different flowers. |
don't know, whatever it is that because it has twists. And in the environment that exists
today. That's a good idea. People Oh, now get there into the organic. Yep. Yeah, organic. |
mean, | look at that I'm | mean, as far as organic, I'll never buy organic because | don't
care at my age. All right. And | look at this point as to spend extra for it. So but as far as
my grandchildren, grandchildren, hey, if it's not organic, we're not buying it. That's a

whole new industry. And honey,

46:39

most countries are importing massive amounts of honey because their natural

populations are dying. So we do see that a

46:46

big item already. That's a big item. And you can do the there's a there's a twist that you
can do that is the truth. What is part of what they're you're doing is to protect protect, a
an environment, which is disappearing. Yes. Definitely part of the messaging. Absolute
Absolutely. Most of the company sustainably. So, yes. As a matter of fact, | saw when | saw
something on television not long ago, where they were somebody said what they're doing
with the bee industry and major corporations. And I'm saying, Hey, wait a minute, we've

got to protect the bees. And you never had that before.

47:26

Right and where we're going? It's the conditions are not like that yet, so we don't have

that. Good. Yeah. So are you starting from scratch? Good luck. Okay, what's next? Okay,
JO

JO

JO

jo

35:22

| would say, | would say to communication. And at this point, | certainly if you can sit down
with your brother and say, hey, look, here’s what I'm doing. Here's what | plan on doing. If
you want to be part of it, I'll be happy to be to listen to you. But when it comes, I'm gonna
call the shots. If you can't live with that, that's tough because | have to do this for the for
mom and dad. But, and |, whatever, I'll give you much information. And you're all you give
me feedback. But when it comes to making a final decision is not his. Right. Yeah. Yes,

thank you very much. You're welcome.

35:59

All right. Next, we have Jen and mitko. In San Jose, California. Are you on the line?

36:05

from New York, actually? Oh, Hi, there. Hi. Hi, George. Thank you for your time. And thank
you, Victor. Welcome. What can | do for you? So mitko and | we are taking okay. Following
a family business question. We are taking over a family run business in Bulgaria. And | just
quit my job three weeks ago. We plan to move in November. To Tilburg to the bob Tilburg.
Eric, correct? Yeah. Okay. We have ambitious plans to grow this business and transform it
from a local business, to a business with global reach and impact. And it's in beekeeping,
it's in honey, actually. That's interesting. Yeah. So sweet job. Thank you. Good. One of the
ideas that a friend floated recently was the concept of doing a reality TV documentary
show to help spread awareness to what we're what we're creating. And at the stage, |
don't know if it makes sense or not. But as you've created the apprentice, | wanted to hear
what you learned about the making of a reality TV show. And, you know, how is it

constructed? How is it filmed? How was the storyline developed? and What impact did

37:18

it have? Well, of course, | had very little | was a judge on the apprentice | did very little with
the with the concept. But what if part of what you're, you're saying is, sound? sounds fine. |
have a great idea. The other part doesn't, if it knew the part, do a reality show that just
forget it. This is very expensive. There's tremendous amount of time, talent talent involved.
And the only thing that makes it work is this you got people to watch. People are
interested in it. Now, | cannot see that people are going to be that interested in bees
making honey. Okay. Okay. I’m not telling that the meaning those means. Any means? I'm

just saying as | can't see it, that that that that would be something that | think would have
JO

JO

general acceptance of the public. And this is true on many of the documentaries that they
fall because nobody watches it. Nobody really, it's nice, but nobody cares enough to
spend the time. And they are very expensive, and requires a tremendous amount of talent,
and tremendous amount of expertise, money. Also, you're dealing the country, which |
have no knowledge of how they how they react to shows, be radio, television or business
or what what is whether the government gets involved. Having said that, that there's so |
think the idea of reality show is something | would be very, | wouldn't | just reject it. | don't
think it's kind of possibility. However, running the family business and expanding it into a
global economy. That's great. But you don't need a TV show. You don't need a reality show
in order to do that. But what you have to do basically, is wnat you're doing build a
product. And you can have a documentary of everything that you do while you're from the
time you take care of the bees and whatever. So that now you make your product better
than anybody else's product. And you now basically say, here’s what it is that and why you
should do business with us. And what is we're going to pack a drink you're going to brand,
so brand yourself and brand a product so that people would want that. That would be the

route that | would suggest you take and good work very well.

39:48

This is MIPCOM. | just wanted to add a little bit context to our story. Sure, and why exactly
our friend was mentioning The idea of reality show because and and we we miss to give
that context are there. So I'm working in tech security software engineer, and is working in
real estate. And we're pretty much like, I'm living in Silicon Valley, and living our high
paying jobs, living like sunny California, to go back to my roots. So beekeeping has been
in my family for three generations, I'm the fourth. And we thought that that story, like has
some value. So that's, that’s where the idea comes from. And | hear your, your thought on
like that, it is very expensive project. And we should definitely, like, take that under

consideration.

40:58

Got expensive, you don't have the expertise in it. No, it was you understand, like, like, like,
take the apprentice. The The, the expertise, the parties for the apprentice, basically came
out of Mark Burnett came out and Mark Burnett, at this point who did these shows? He
had the survivor, he had others that was his pro his he was in the business of creating
shows. Yeah, he was in the business. That was he was the moving party. So | understand he
was hold on just a minute, let me get up, | got a call. And | just gotta get off. Eric, I'll call
you back later. So he was the moving party. Now, if you were in the entertainment field,

which you're not. And you said this point, right? I'm in the entertainment field, | want to
JO

| agree with your perspective that the impact of the tariffs is way overblown. You know, by
some estimates, were, you know, a tariff is a tax, that’s really all it is. And so we're talking
about 30 billion in taxes. And the federal government today collects one and a half trillion,
so it's really a rounding error in the grand scheme of things. Absolutely. So, you know, to

the fact that the media is so focused on this 30 billion is, is really quite a distortion.

10:39

It is a distortion. And the the main thing, one of the main things that makes it a distortion
is that there’s a general feeling. And everybody right, that free trade is the right way to go.
Agreed. However, what's the right way to go? If one of the parties wants to stack the deck?
Then your desktop free trade? Exactly. So, so usually after say, Okay, if I'm dealing with,
with somebody that is stacking the deck, | can't, | can't do the same thing | would do with
somebody that | trust completely. And | think that over the period, the next few months or
a short period, you're going to see the realization by many, many countries, and certainly
companies that are doing business in those in those countries to say, Okay, what do | how
do | get my business and so solve my problems with the customers, even though there
may be a question of necessity, increasing increasing prices, because of the tax This place
is placed on the on the products. If if the economy economies are good, and people have
jobs, they want to spend the money, the price becomes the pay is not critical. They would
buy whatever it is that goes with steel, and it goes with everything else that's available in
the marketplace. It's not, you know, it’s not limited to any one particular area. The main
thing is, is to see whether or not in the countries themselves whether or not there's a
tendency to inflation, because inflation could be if it’s, if it's rapid, could be could throw
everything wacky. But if it’s not, it's kept in a reasonable area of control because of the the
regulations and so it, it works. works. | mean, | I've seen I've seen it seem to go through |
mean, before we were buying steel at one point, it’s from somebody that was in a, a
particular country where they had 300% inflation. In a year, a better guy got a bid on the
steel, that this $2 million worth of steel, the guy says, the people we're sorry, this bid is
good for 30 for three hours. Wow. Okay. But that was because of the inflation. Sure, he
didn’t wake up by it. And it was it was working. But you don't have that right now? Will we
have it? Is there a possibility? There's always a possibility? But | don't see it. | don't see it.
And | don't see the | see the turmoil only in the fact of the people that are read relating to
it, you have a tendency where terrorists are banned? The answer is no. tariffs are not bad.
If they eliminate the the the the unfair trade practices, then | and we have a country
where you have at this point, how much goods, try it, how much you're trying to buys of
our goods, and how much we buy their goods. And you see the tremendous difference in
this and then they devaluate the currency to show that they basically, you know, swallow
the market. So you have an unfair playing field. What do you do? You got to figure out

how you're going to survive and go accomplish what has to be accomplished because
JO

that you've seen in your experience as part of the acquisition process? for land, it would

reduce my risk? And, you know, there's an entitlement uncertainty?

16:58

Yeah, that's a good question. First of all, the key really is what's the zoning and a various
areas. And | think that if you go to the municipality, and you talk to them about storage of
that util, vibration boats, which is not the most desirable, but if you if you look, there must
be land that whether usage is underutilized words. You know, it’s, it's much worse than
what you propose. So if you speak to the municipalities and so forth, say, look, here’s what
we what I'm planning on doing, and make it a little more attractive. | mean, you know, you
can storage facility can be ugly, it can also be very, can look, okay. And the main thing is
that, how does it fit into the tax structure of the municipality? What do they get? What
benefit do they get? Now, certainly, they can see that they would get a lot of benefit it
because there'll be taxes, and also income would be generated by the use of land for

these facilities for storage. The people write stories they pay, when they pay, there might
be a tax on what they pay. And also the fact that they're down there. Now, if people are
storing the boats in the facility, they're going to be there for a certain period of time, not
ona car, not every day, what have you. But as long as they're there, they're bringing life
into the into the area. So they're byproducts and what you know, it's it’s not a bad thing.
It's not as good as some of the planners or the people that are involved in the municipality
would want. Yeah, what we would like, we would like the most beautiful thing at this that
beneficial, but we don't care if you lose money. That's, that's the way they look at it. Right?
So they're not they're not business people. So | think that if in fact, what would go land will
probably land or you go by, see what the zoning is. If the zoning is good, a lot of times
zoning is perfectly permissible. So if it's permissible, you got it, you don’t have a problem
at that point, and they can not going to hold you back. On the other hand, if it’s not, and
you want to get the zoning changed, you got a different, different situation, because that
is now not become somewhat political. We don't want this in our area, you know, and it’s,
it's, | would hesitate buying land buying it’s not optioning it so buying land is different. If
you option it and you go back and you create a plan and a brochure to show the county
what it is or the municipality what it is that you're doing that effectively they would find
attractive. So | know A number of occasions where we had problems with the city or
problems is, maybe you can throw something in. So this is saying, Hey, I'll make a
playground, I'll make an area for food for kids or a park or something. What are you
looking for? And maybe you can somehow work that in to your facility. It doesn't
necessarily it’s not just dead space that's never going to see. But maybe what is it that it
would make it attractive? And then you speak to the powers that be and see what suit

can be done? Very often networks, cuz you're saving them money. Gotcha. So just ask
JO

taking advantage of the fact that they have cheap labor. And the fact that the
government could get involved in everything, and the other countries or participants from
other countries don't have that advantage. And therefore that a disadvantage, one of the
ways to level the playing field is the tariffs. And it's been that way for a number of years,
but nobody wants to tackle it. So as a result, at that point, China has been taking
advantage of a shortly, Canada, the United States and other countries that are involved
in manufacturing, or trying to sell product. Understand, you can sell a product in China, if
you make if you make it anywhere else without paying the tariff. They don’t want our
automobiles, they don't want those, they they want you to buy theirs, but you should they
should not be obligated to buy theirs. So it's it's it’s been an unfair trading situation in so
what | am recommending and highly is not to panic, at this age, if the people if the
economy's are good, if people have money they will buy if the price goes up a little bit. So
what in the overall scheme of things, it’s not going to make a big difference, they'll they'll
always buy the product, the best product is available at an appropriate price. And over a
period of time, it will certainly | have no doubt that it will work out. However, having said
that, | don’t know what's the appropriate period of time, China's got a long window.
They're looking at what happens in the next 50 years. And that's what they're concerned
with now what hassle show me any one of our countries via Canada or the United States
or anyone in Europe that has a window of 50 years. We're not we're concerned of what
happens this year or next year. So it's very short. So we're looking through a different lens.
And however having said we're looking to a different tariffs, the as a will will work out
there you will ultimately end up with buying buying better products than you can get now
at a price that's fair. And not basically maybe maybe Chinese products, but they will be
absorbed the price the price increases whatever they are, will be absorbed in the Barbie
the purchasing public and it's not going to make a tremendous difference price wise, you
know, | mean, it's not it's it’s not going to say that nobody would buy it because the price
is too high. It's the is the question they will buy it if they say so | would not stockpile on the
idea that the price is going to go up tremendously. | wouldn't do that. At this | would
assume at this point. Keep your normal inventories and go certainly get the sales and as
long as the sales are that you have the customers they will have to buy product
somewhere and if the gun bar product somewhere they're going to buy it from you and if
the price is is a little is higher than what it’s it’s not critical. It's not critical. It's not there's
not | went to a doctor talking about the something that’s reprice eager priced out of the
market. No, | would say don't worry over that. It's going to be short term pain for some
companies and certainly paying for some it industries, but on the the over the next few
years or short a shorter years at that it's going to work out for everybody's benefit, and

you're not going to have a depression. Well,

10:13
JO

JO

several years, and the participants of the call love the quality of the feedback that they
get from you. | love the fact that we can go deep on topics, whether it’s related to
negotiation, real estate, the economy, or even just how to manage the complexities of life.
For future listeners or for future participants, once you talk a little bit about some of the
source of the principles that bring that you bring to the call, maybe you can take a minute
and share some of your experience. For those who don't know you quite as well, because

we do have a few new members on the call even

01:14

Oh, sure, like, I'm happy to do that. Because the background is all important. First of all,
they have to understand that over the three years, I've been involved in businesses now for
more than 60 years of all different kinds. And also involved with a major law firm, which |
set up with 160 lawyers doing nothing basically but real estate, and was involved with with
Donald's for 40 some odd years doing a lot of interesting deals and understand what how
you can succeed in the business world also involved in owning radio stations. That was
part of it. | got involved in that business, and learned what it is to set up a production
company, well, you know, from radio, and also was involved with a major product and
with, with the factory that was making the solid surface material in Albuquerque setup
that that business or involved in that, mostly to the extent of the financing end, and more
important than they think anything else is over the long span of years, I've learned how
important it is to negotiate, and how to negotiate and most people don't know how to
negotiate, they don't know, and they just, they just they just go sort of by their seat of their
pants, and then they can’t understand why it doesn't achieve the results that they want to
want to achieve. And effectively in goshi ation is being able to understand the people
you're talking to, with a lot of who they are, you're always negotiating if you're in business,
if we're negotiating with your staff or you're negotiating with business people you're
buying things. And it's it's it's a lifelong experience. And | suppose I’ve compiled in my own
way, a whole host of ideas and things that made it good and why some things were
successful in some sworn successful. And I'm happy to share that with all with all the
participants that are on the calls, because we're talking about my experiences based ona
my lifestyle, my life and my lifestyle, as well as business and everything else. And so we
can go into a depth understand for the people that are listening here. Hey, | have been

where you are at this point, you haven't been where | am, which is 91 years

03:43

old indeed. In fact, one of the things that | love is you've mastered even when you were

working for Donald, for many, many years you mastered work life balance where you were
Well, you tried one of the things you can't do, you can, you can't fire your family. Very true.
It doesn’t doesn’t work. But and this is not an unusual situation. And it wasn't where you
have a family business As matter of fact, very often, it's typical. especially among among
the children, one says, I'm getting the short end of the stick, I'm doing most of the work
and you're getting the money and | don't like the way you're running this at odds with that
you're when you're dealing in family business, understand, it's very hard to get a good
working relationship for everybody. Now, obviously, from what you're saying, there is
friction and your brother is a major is a problem. He's a family problem, and how he thinks
how he acts how he does to the, to the, to the parents, and certainly has has what he’s
what he’s doing with you, that what you're doing, basically is great. Otherwise, you're
you're protecting your parents, their assets and their income in an appropriate manner.
And you spend you doing the time and effort that's required to do that rather than the
have a the services of an independent party who is not really concerned with the family
more interested in getting what results or getting a fee to do this service. So you're
performing very worthwhile, and very, that's a great thing. And | commend you for it,
especially your parents should commend you for it, because they won't do it, they can't do
it. And they would not trust anybody but you bring in somebody from the outside now,
you're always going to have a problem with your brother, that's going to be a problem,
you aren't going to solve it. Don't try to bring him into the fold. At this, you can tell them
what you're doing. You can say hey, if you have any ideas, I'll be happy to listen. But
having said that, this this this is the way it's going to work out and | assume there will be
some appropriate disposition of the assets and the income while your parents are still
alive and whatever they stay wherever they're living. And then whatever is left over or so
but they will go to the go to the family or go to you and your brother or grandchildren or
children or what have you. And are they going to be happy? No there's no alternative
there’s no alternative understand that you're not and this happens with family businesses
over and over it happens fights come with family businesses fights come with family they
think they think | should have gotten more arrived | did more | got this Why did they get
all of this what and it's it's that’s slight if you can't you can't solve it but I'm saying don't try
to and don't worry about it. This is an insoluble problem all right is insoluble problem
where you have a family at this point and there is dissension in the in the family based on
the the people that are there that run it Why is he so successful? Why am | Why am | the
poor boy Why can't | get a job? Why can't why cannot and there's essentially whatever it
is |am sure there is no way your brother's gonna think you're doing a great job right?
Alright. Whatever you give him or whatever you did, he’s gonna be not happy with should
be more should be better or understand there is a there is obviously from what i've what
you're what you're saying. There is a jealousy between you and your brother because
you're running the family business and he is not. Now he’s not capable of doing it. He
doesn't want to do it. But the fact that you're doing it and he is not he feels that there's

he's not being looked down on he wouldn't do it. | mean from what you're saying he does
JO

JO

JO

JO

he knows he quality goal he wants to do is great. create problems and your parents and
the what you really have to do is as hard as it is, and | understand is going to be very
difficult is you explain to your parents, | am protecting my what I'm doing, | want to
protect you, your lifestyle and your assets so that you have a comfortable life, whatever
was from from now until you're no longer here. That's my function, then what happens
happens thereafter? If there's no money left, so be it if there is this, where does the money
go? It'll go ABC and D. And that's it. You can't? That's the best you could do. When you get
to the ABCD. They don't want you they don't. Nobody says | should get more. | forget this.

Why are we equal? You're not gonna win it.

30:48

Don't even try that the problem arose way back when when you decided to be involved in
the family business. And I'm not saying you did the wrong thing by any means. You did the
right thing. And you're doing great. But that's where the problem came in. Don't do it. |
always tell most of the or do whatever you do. Don't do business with family because you

can fire a family.

Siz

Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's true how and also, the economies of you know, Canada and the US

are heavily based on family businesses. So the, like you said,

31:31

I'm not saying the family business isn't. And | really want to commend you, from what you
work from what you're telling me that you done and what you are doing, and will continue
to do. But understand, they are not going to be happy, somebody is not going to be happy
with what you're doing. You'll always be critical, critical. And you say, Okay, if you know a
new ad that you do the best you can. And you've got the The goal is to protect your family
and protect your your parents. And that is and let the chips fall where they may you have
nothing to be concerned about. It's not going to be they're still going to have friction with
your brother. But this has been brewing for a long period of time didn't happen yesterday.
Am | right?

32:12

Yes, absolutely. Yes. Yeah. Well, there's your brother, by the way. He's three years older
Olles

PC+-+August+2019+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

qe Thu, 9/92:37PM @ 56:24

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

business, people, buy, question, family, product, brother, involved, area, george, tariffs, build, point,

understand, municipality, idea, parents, problem, participants, trade negotiations

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:06

JO

Welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with Mr. George Ross. George,
of course gained a lot of fame for being Mr. Trump's right hand man for most of 37 years
on the TV show, The Apprentice, taught at the law school at NYU for over 20 years. Before
working for Donald, he worked for Goldman for over a decade, and author of two best

selling books. So welcome, George, great to have you here again.

00:31

JO

Thank you. Yeah, it’s good to be here. What let's let’s go to work.

00:35

JO

Okay. So, so George, we've been participating in a monthly mastermind Call now for
JO

JO

build a reality show based on making these. In other words, we're making honey, that's me
is if you were in the business of making shows or documentaries, | would say yeah, go do
it. But you're not. Okay. I'm saying good. That's That's not it. And he was the sole we got
back to the apprentice. The Apprentice now was Mark Burnett, who was comes up says
shows that would be viable for television. Got to get rid of so and what he did. So now,
when he came up with the idea, who do you get Donald Trump recognized name,
somebody this point who would go and when that felt that based on the put the
recognition which he had with the public, that would be the be the one to basically be
involved with the show. And then he went and sold it to convince them be safe, who's
always looking for a product, which you'll have an audience for audience participation,
which audience will go for? | don't see that in where you are in what you're talking about.
Why would an audience do it, and you don't have a big name, right. So you don't have
them, you don't have the major ingredients of having a show. Such as such as such as,
however, you do have the major ingredients, if you want to take the business to family
business. And you say I'm going to give it a half twist, and it will go conservatively comes
out well. So that’s you know, that's a do that if you want to, however, at this, I'm not so
sure that you want to give up what you're doing. Tell them what you're doing now. You tell
me you're both happy in the Silicon Valley. And you're now you go back into a family
business. God bless you. That's like jumping off the, into the deep water. And | don’t know

that you know how to swim in Bulgaria.

43:46

We'll see. What we see in Bulgaria is much bigger than what we're doing in Silicon Valley

right now.

43:51

That's it. I'm not saying go. Hey, I've done it. Yeah, I've taken flyers. flyers, right when |
went when | went in, to the rec to radio business, alright. You knew a business at this point.
And at the time, we went into radio at this, and we're going to buy radio stations and run
it. And apart the partner | was with my brother in law had the idea. And he was
programming something as called hard rock. Now hard rock and go back. This is in the
60s. Nobody ever heard of hard rock | listened to it is the worst sound I've ever heard. But
he said it's the way of the future. The younger generation is attuned to it. Right? That was
a good feeling. And he was dead right? Dead right at that point and it went on and it
turned out to be the sensational. So we built a business from nothing into something
worth millions of dollars with a product that was first coming out. Yeah, I've taken my

share of this and There's nothing wrong with trying it if it doesn’t work, do something else.
jo

JO

JO

you're playing with a broken tech? Well, I'm so I'm not this is concerned about it. The as
long as basically the economies of the participants or the countries are good. And you've
seen this. We've seen it you've seen basically you see a deal made between the United
States and Canada on a lot of products. And they're going to say as far as we're
concerned. Our product is well we'll talk more about for fair trade but we're not getting
involved with doing it with with China because they don't play fair. So as long as people
have jobs, the economy the economy is good. You don't have inflation or a lot of the
products which go wacky which are important to such as foodstuffs and gig. Gasoline
petrol lows as long as they stay with some type of a balance. I'm not, | wouldn't be overly

concerned.

15:02

Okay. Well, let's, let's move to some of our participant questions. Why don't we start with
Hayden in Atlanta? Hayden, are you there? You can press star six to unmute hidden there
either. Ah, here we go. Can you hear me now? All right, George, how you doing today? I'm

doing good. How you doing? Hey, it's beautiful day in Atlanta.

15:24

How you doing? What are storage properties? It's doing good. So that’s what | want to talk
to you about today? Well, good. | always like to talk, especially when | talk. I'm happy to
talk when things are good. And also happy, not happy. But also talk with things are not so
good.

15:38

Let's start at the top, you know? Okay, so what can we do so so last month, we talked
about a project that | was taking on in Florida, which is a boat and RV parking facility. And
we talked about building out some storage units on it and the situation of the jurisdiction,
not wanting us to not allowing us to build out storage units on that property. Today, | want
to ask you, since | bought that property at the beginning of the month, we've taken the
rent roll up tremendously. And last year, our customers would take it from 22,000 to
29,000. Right first month, that's awesome. We added a lot of value, which is awesome.
And currently I'm at 99% occupied, and we're actually going into the hot season down
there. So | know that within the next 30 days, I'll have to start turning people away. So the
first thing that enters my mind is | need to find more places so that people can park their
boats and RVs. So my question is, I'm new to development, and there's clearly a risk that

the township down there won't approve us to do what I'm looking to do. Is there anything
JO

JO

than me. And | think | remember myself being 43. So | think he’s 46. What did he do? He is

now the owner of the scientific instrumentation company that my dad and | sold him

S2oe

up again. You sold him? Yeah. So what's he so what's he complaining about? Yeah, | agree
with you. You should be drilled. Yep. | agree. Unless it's comes out now that his operation
of the company is not meeting his standards. And he says, Yeah, apparently they sold me
a bad a bad deal. No, no, he’s Yeah, that's not the situation. You got to speak to you who
speak to you, brother. And basically tell him, show him that it’s not the glass is half empty,
the glass is half full. And this is it. And this is what you got? And yes, we're going to take
care of you. And yes, whatever it is, we'll try we'll we'll try to meet your needs. But the the
basic problem, or the basic thing, Come, my parents come first, and you will run the
business, the way they're their business affairs, the way they want it, they would not be
comfortable to have an outside party. And | am not suggesting outside party. Okay, if you
if you brought it to me from day one, and you said should should | get involved? Oh, you
have an outside party? The answer would not be the same. | would say get an outside
party, because then you won't have the aggravation. To blame it on the outside party.
Yeah, but that would that wouldn't serve the purpose. And now and is way beyond that
and you're doing you're good is great. But understand it's when you have a family and I've
seen it time and time again. Family break up. | mean, | when there's a breakup, | had a
client who had parking lots, major parking lots. So it's decided he's gonna have a
daughter, and a son. The daughter is four with Mary who had a daughter, and they broke
up the parking lots into two partials that were identical. As a result, at that point, the
daughter at that point thought thought her, her husband was getting the short end of the
stick and she refused to talk to her mother and father or to let them see their
grandchildren. That's what happened. So but the parents who tried to do the right thing,
they said, the two the brother and the sister, the brother in law and the brother are not
getting along. So let's give them equal equal authority equal business he part of it didn't
work out. Was that family so it can get real fun. Fortunately, it can get very ugly. But good
luck. You're doing the right thing and continue on at that point, but on it, but and don't be

frustrated because you're not going to solve it. Okay, so

35:12

do you think that more communication and clarity and transparency is better? Or do you

think basically, there's, it's gonna be difficult, there's just nothing,
JO

JO

JO

them questions to find out what we're meant to them.

20:43

Yeah. You find out now at this point, maybe they hope maybe you have a problem. At this
point. We say what, hey, this area in this area, it's a desolate area. At that point, the roads
are terrible. We don't have curb because what happened? Maybe there's a way to say,
okay, hey, we'll we'll we'll fix it, we'll help you fix it. Right anyway, like, you can save a
government money. They're looking forward and improvements. Yes, we're gonna have
better roads, yes, we're gonna have maybe lighting, maybe good, maybe good lighting,
this is going to be so you have to come up with a plan, show what you're planning on
building what you're planning on doing, and make it attractive. So the the the brochure,
which you have, it looks gorgeous, what you build and go to look as gorgeous, but the
brochure looks nice. And then look at the growth, they'll look at the brochure. And you say
good, is what you've got now. Now, if you take the area, you want to be in take pictures of
the area as it is now. And the pictures should be terrible. In other words, it was a terrible,
they should show the worst of that particular area or that usage of that property. Then
you now come in with a brochure to show the best usage. Here, I'm going to have a we're
not going to store yachts, we're going to sell boats, we're going to store our V's and then
we're going to put a build a nice facade, as if people will come to do it will come to look at
it. We pulled out booth showrooms will do a whole bunch of things. And whatever it is, you
do necessary to be somewhat of a salesman. Does that mean you do it? No. What it
means is, you're doing it because this is what they want to hear. And ultimately, they get
the approvals that you want. And later on you build what is economically feasible. Makes

a lot of sense. Thank you, George, | appreciate that. You're welcome. | love that.

22:30

There's some there's some great wisdom in that. And Hayden, when when we talked later
this week, George triggered a couple of ideas that | think are worth definitely following up
on.

22:42

Perfect, perfect. Yeah, but | think Hayden what I'm what I'm suggesting is, before you get
heavily involved in a particular piece of property, | say heavily involved, make sure that
you can accomplish the use that you want, that's going to make sense for you. If not
zoning is whatever it is the use that you're going to say now this is tough, it took an

option. And you went the route will actually say I've got the option to buy this property
JO

JO

JO

working in the city four days a week, and then you were at home out on Long Island three
days a week and you know, still being having major responsibility in a major corporation
with huge huge responsibility you were able to maintain that balance. | think that's
brilliant.

04:09

Yeah, not only that, it’s a balance of of your lifestyle with the tape being a major
contributor apart in one way into into charities or your your family or your your religious
whatever the background, and you know, to be a participant instead of just a spectator. |

love it.

04:33

Well, you mentioned negotiation and that's a natural segue into really the first question
which | think we've got a brilliant case study happening in front of us in the news every
day. And and headlines on virtually every newspaper, whether it’s the Wall Street Journal
are the Financial Times are reporting that the trade negotiations with China are hurting
the economy. Now clearly, that’s not the goal. Quite the contrary. But some business have
been building inventories in order to cope with the uncertainty associated with tariffs. And
inventory building ahead of demand is one of the most common causes of a recession,
which clearly we don't want. So eventually, these businesses, when they've got excess
inventory, they they'll put their foot on the brakes, they'll they'll stop buying. And that's
what causes the typical sharp downturn that we see in recessions. So what are your
thoughts on the trade negotiations? And is it possible that we've got some unintended

negative consequences from the trade negotiation?

05:32

Well, that’s a very, you know, it's a wonderful, it's a wonderful topic. Of course, it’s, it's as
far as being current, and understand this, what | think the whole concept of the tariffs and
the trade negotiations is being overblown as to the adverse effect that it might have on
some as disease or some business around, it has to, but it’s, it’s not that great if you have a
product, and you can now cost them more because of a Trier tariff, generally speaking,
that the cost cut will be absorbed by the ultimate purchaser, if that if they need if they
want the product, it's not a question of the price. So some areas are going to be hurt,
some businesses are going to be hurt, but the overall result will be will be in my estimation,
will be extremely beneficial. As far as anyone that's doing business, anywhere, certainly

with China. | think you're right for years. For years, what they've been doing is they've been
JO

JO

JO

JO

income line. And the income line was the income that you're going to get for this office
building. And there was an asterisk. And me | looked at the were the what were the
asterisk is all the way in the back of the brochure said the income is based on a route aid
occupancy rate of 90%. In the Wall Street area. No building presently maintains a 90%
occupancy. Okay. And meanwhile, if you looked at it, it looked great. But they gave you
they're giving you a number that was it was a few affections. But what they hoped was
going to work and they solved it. So what does that tell you the same thing to just what?
Yes, you can be optimistic. And but do it in a manner that people may not get to the last

page? Yeah, that's

53:55

a good deal. | was speaking about to be the Asterix on there. So | just, | don't like to

February overly optimistic. We're very glass half full type of folks.

54:06

Yeah, that’s good. You can say fine, he has a good base out we had wild This is the income
at the present time we anticipate 10% increases five, but whatever. It is a reasonable
increase. That's it. | mean, people, you know, the Japanese board Rockefeller Center,

when the rents were $25 a square foot and they said, Oh, fine, that's great. Because the
rents are going to go up to $50 per square foot. Yeah, when they bought it, they went
from 25 to 12. All right. That was because the market had was was different. But as they
have projected out, it was going to be great. You can do that. And there's nothing wrong
with it. I'm not saying that you intentionally mislead people, but you certainly can show a

red rosy your picture then might truly exist,

94:47

as well. We'd be careful about is just not over promising and under delivering. Yep, that's

true. Especially the first couple deals out. You don't want to absolutely lose or lose their

94:57

faith. And then you got to be you got to keep them committed. vacation with your with
your with your investors. When things go good, tell them they're going good when they go
bad, tell them they're going dead. Why? As long as they think you're honorable and you're
doing it, doing it appropriately, they're going to listen to you.
JO

JO

JO

90:11

Yeah. So much appreciated. George, thank you so much. Okay, are we through?

90:17

| think so we're at our time here. So looking forward to our call next month, we didn’t get

through all of our questions, unfortunately,

Soe

keep keep the questions, keep the questions and get more and more questions in find was
| think this was it was good to get this get the people or the listeners definitely to know me
where I'm coming from. And | can get an idea. Were there any we did touch a couple of
good subjects? Absolutely. One was family business, dealing with your with your family on
a ona family business. So that was a That to me was a good one. We also got to got into
the basis of dealing with a municipality on a use that they might not find so desirable. So

all of those are good amid keeps. Keep the questions coming. They're all good.

Robert 56:00

Perfect. Thank you, George. Have a great evening. Take care. All right. Cheers. Bye for
now. There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a
question for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make
sure you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful

syndicating
JO

JO

already. | can tell you right now not enough.

50:05

Well, I'll just see the the minutes of the hour we got going well, yeah. It should be hours.
Yeah.

50:12

Yeah. So now you know what you have now at this point is exist. You generally speaking
with syndications, and I've been involved with many, I've never done one. But I've had a
clients which have, and I've seen the ones that are successful or not successful and looked
at him said, Why? Why were they and what you have to do is, is be present. If you do a
business plan, and you do a business plan, you show why it's going to work, what it’s going
to be, and on the business plan, you can exaggerate, you can now say, well, this, we think
the business is booming over this is going to be, here's what it's gonna look like in five
years or 10 years. This is our estimation, but I'm saying You're lying. But you're just, you're
just optimistic, overly optimistic, maybe. Now, if you have some kind of a track record,
then you have no problem because your investors will go with your track record, say,
here's the deal, | did do a, this is what | said it was going to pay. And this is what happened
to turned out to be better. And instead of getting 5%, they got 10%, whatever it is. So if
you now again, Bill can demonstrate that you have a track record and you have the
expertise, you'll have no problem getting the investors. However, when you don't have that
expertise, yes, you have to you have to give extra inducements on the first time around.
Because the fact that you're a novice. However, once you've done that, and you've
already proven out that that price, you don't have to live with that number, by any means
you can now go back and say, Yeah, but that was okay for the first deal. But now, | can't
pay you 10%, I’m paying you 6% 8% of what have you. And it works. Once they are
satisfied giving you money to invest, and you have achieved a certain degree of success,
they will give you all you need. So the first one, you may have to do it, but don't do it
forever. That's fantastic. That's what | was. That was my plan there is to make a little bit
fatter returns on the on the first couple and then develop track record and background
and then take it down a notch or two. But | had | give you an excellent example. | was
looking at for a client a major piece of property down on Wall Street area. As a matter of
fact, | had basically this client, | put in a bid, and the bid was rejected. Then later on at that
point, it was a prospectus, which went out from another party with the same property
showing a fantastic rate of return. And the perspectives was like MIT was for millions more
than we had offered. | said, Wait a minute, | said, | can’t be that far off, | wouldn't have

made the big mistake. So | looked carefully at the perspective. And | was looking at the
