JO

JO

didn't know is how many buildings are due to at a tax rate started at 505 or $6. | never
gave them those. And they didn't do their independent investigation. Right? When the
building was finished, the tax rate came in at $6. So instead of being paying their share
over $6, they paid it over $5 or lower number, which be because you convince them that
that was that was realistic, and it wasn't realistic. So that's going to question now find out
your find out the truth of the matter or confirm your beliefs. We have to find out the truth
which is digging in. And it’s not necessarily what was there. And in this in that particular
case, the the lawyers that were involved relied upon the information they were given,
which was factually correct. Except it was it was Jerry bale was incomplete. It was it was
complete with cherry pick, but it didn't represent the market. He represented specific
buildings in the same area. So he said fine, as it turns out to be something that he bought
it. And you know what, except when they when they finally came out, the | wasn't able to
tenants were up in arms. And the lawyers were up and they were up in arms with the
lawyer and say, how come | didn’t know this? How come | all of a sudden paying increase
in taxes when | shouldn't be paying the increase in tax. So it became above what they
ultimately settled, but nevertheless, that was a result of coming up and faxes looked good
on their face, but they will actually be a loser. An error. That's pure gold, George. Pure
gold. Yep. Okay, | think we're sure right.

57:21

Thank you so much. Look forward to talking again next month, and great. Okay. We'll talk
to you soon, like keep the questions coming. Yeah, yeah. Great questions. Thanks. Have a
great night, George. Bye. No.

57:38

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio comm make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful
syndicating
JO

JO

JO

the degree of performance is as as agreed to by the GC? So it's as good | put in the course
of the steel is did you putting in the building is $300,000 | put into putting half of it and
wants to make a laboratory there can be 150,000. But he has to certify that it's there. And
there has to be an architect or a construction manager that says yeah, that's it. And this
in writing and is guaranteed. In other words is certified. It's not the it’s not done. Don't Oh,
yeah, by the way, | paid half. No, no, | got here. Give me a statement that | paid half. Now,
if in fact, did they put in half if in fact, they haven't put it in half? And yes for this serious

problem? Because that's that's fraud. That's criminal. Perfect. | love it.

42:05

Thank you, George. You're welcome. Okay, next we have Shannon Shannon, you're on the

line? Yes, here. Can you hear me? Yeah, | can hear you fine. Jana. What's up?

42:15

Great. Thanks for the opportunity. George, my husband and | are doing our first
syndication. Prior to this. Thanks. I'm excited. Prior to this project, we've only done joint
ventures before. And of course, in those cases, we were communicating with individual
investors about individual properties. So now we're faced with a change to
communicating with a group of investors. Our syndication is purchasing multiple
individual condominium units over a period of six to 12 months. So far, it's performing well,
but the financials are going to be erratic for a while during the acquisition and
stabilization phase. I'm wondering if you have any recommendations on how to strike a
balance between providing the financial information and the facts and then telling the
story of how the project is progressing? We want to maintain the investors confidence in
the project. And then also, I'm wondering if there's any specific areas that you suggest
that we definitely include that information? Or if there’s some areas where you would

recommend we avoid? entirely? No, that wouldn't

43:19

be the first thing is you have to be, you have to be frank, with your investors at that point
in time. And when you first start out at this point, | go, here's what we anticipate. And
here's the return you're going to get on this and all things there are variables in what you
have projected, which are there. And as long as those those variables you can you
indicate in your syndication or your papers that is subject to changes in market conditions.
So they say okay, but they don't disappear. That would be put that in it. And then later on,

certain things come up, you go back to your investors at this point, say, Hey, you know,
JO

JO

anyone at this point, find out who's done if somebody so my dealing with them? find out
who's dealing with right. You could probably do it at your lawyer at that point goes
through lawyers say Hey, who would you Who do you use to do? Who else does it who
was who do deals who's successful in dealing with the FHA or dealing with Fannie Mae or

the Buddha was successful? That's the one that you need. It's strictly political.

19:21

Okay. My question to what | can come up with. That's it. You got it. Thank you. Perfect.

Okay, next. We've got Patrick. Patrick, are you on line?

19:35

30. It'll be Matt. Matt. Okay, go ahead. A Georgia. Hi, fi. So we've been looking at some
deals that require significant money to make them a reality. 11 million plus roughly. We've
been trying to build relationships to the type of people who are comfortably wealthy
enough to find such a project. We're actually we're having issues connecting this. We've
met some gatekeepers who tell us come back when we have the Have a deal, and they'll
reach out to their money connection? Would it be not best for us to form relationship with
the person of wealth before asking for funds? Like our current investor base? Or are these
people operating at a different level? Well, no, you got it. This is, you know, this is the
potential chicken in the egg type of situation doctor comes first. The only thing that

makes it work is this is if someone is pushing for the investors at that point has to have the
track record, and has to have the facility to tell your investors look, we are giving you a
special opportunity to participate. If you want it, it's a limited opportunity. If you don't
want it, it's okay. We got we got other people to do it. So you need a backup source, that's
going to say, Okay, I'm going to I'm going to buy a buy into it, | may come play take a
higher return, because | am the insurance policy. But nevertheless, | am there if you need
the money. So it's a venture capitalist, or somebody who's willing to take a short term
finger risk, until you get the investors. Okay, so basically, we need to find a partner who's
who's financially aid, that's what you have to do. That's the thing, the problem, the
problem that you have is, unless you or whoever is can say, | don't need to the investors,
this is an opportunity for you to make a sound investment at a good rate of return. And
it's, it's on a limited basis. So | can't give you as much as you want, | need $2 million at this
point. But I'll only give you 500,000 because | got 100 and a million and a half from
somewhere else. The hot The harder you the lower you you read, you indicate what you
need from them, the more likelihood you have to get it was raining. But that's the fact. No,
actually, | run to that issue before where it's like, I've asked too little of amount. So you

wouldn't give me the higher amount? Yeah, we're if you've asked us to have you, but
JO

JO

you can't close you can't do you can't finish your sale or your mortgage or your leases or
whatever it is, you've got this cloud on title. You can you can you can do it without a
without a doubt later on by binding the lien and you know, that's only money correct? Not
always what you're doing is you're putting up money or you're putting up a guarantee of a
company that they're willing to pay the amount to do any event that they win, but they
can't they give up the right to have a lien. And when you do that, believe me. The general
contractor comes into life because now he's got to fight for to get the money and prove
that he's entitled to the money but he doesn't add he can't tie up the completion of the
property while the litigation goes on to a whole different ballgame. | can't tell you how
many times who came on that | bought out and | bought a bonded mechanic's liens or
told who told him now Good good fine you have a mechanic's lien, go for go foreclosing
foreclose the lien but you don't get the property. You go to foreclose it against somebody
says I'm going to pay I'm putting up something that's the equivalent to the property. Now
they ended up with a main lawsuit but they really lost the leverage of still stopping the
job. That makes sense. Yeah, it is. It's a disgrace, but unfortunately, not unfortunately, we
generally, most many, many builders are overly concerned with the effect of a mechanic's
lien because it does stop the job. And you can't do financing. You can't do anything as
good lien it's affecting the properties like putting a mortgage on a property that wasn't
there before. But but it's valuable by put by putting up some other security again. So let's

say usually a bond

40:09

or let's say the amount in dispute is $100,000. Is, is there anything that prevents the GC

from putting a lien for a million, let's say,

40:18

putting up a lever, you got to prove it right, though that he puts it at that point, you end
up in jail? No, he’s got to prove what the what the lien is for. They're usually for services,
which are already performed, not services to be performed. So now he says, Good, | put in
| put in this lumber at this point, here, my costs, the same thing when the GC wants to get
paid, he gives you an itemization, or what you're what you're paying for. And he says,
Good, | paid my sub subcontractors | paid the others. And this is how much it is. So you
give me $100,000. And I, I've already paid it out, or I'm obligated to pay it out. But it can't
give you can't put a million dollar lien on it. If I've only got $100,000 worth of contract. It's
known as a GC usually just to pay yourself right. So the key is to have a sworn statement
of construction, the proper AIA forms avoid that architects certificate. | mean, how do you

pay to get an architect's certificate that certifies that they did the work and that the the
JO

JO

JO

just imaginary. You know, | mean, they say good, we want Why is we're happy if we get an
80% loan to value at this point, but what are they happy, if will they accept the 60% loan
to value? Well, | get somebody some other entity or something that will cover the 20%. So
if it happens, that point, if you've got a foreclosure or the problem, we've got somebody
that will that will reduce your will buy back 20 or 20% of your loan. And there are a lot of
companies a lot of people do, because this is a moneymaker for them, they very rarely
they pay you they pay you so you pay them something to fill the gap for the guarantee or
the the exposure, and they probably never come up with money. And you paid for that
with cash or equity your boss, what do you pay for anything to pay part of cash or equity,
what have you, you're paying somebody that got to be a guarantor. And that solves your
problem with the with the construction lender. Because now at that point, now you've got
the loan that you are building, the building and how everything else are ending up to the
end result is still is still the same hasn't changed. But you've given the construction lender

the peace of mind that they're not going to get hurt. Okay,

32:05

| may follow up with you after this call and see if you have a couple of names that you

can, | don't

32:10

know, I'm out of it anymore. | mean, | wish | wish | did. But I've been out of the business too
long. To give you any any names with there are lots of lots of more good to let you go to
get some a broker who handles mortgages or who gets venture capital. And they usually
have the contacts that can do it. There are a lot of companies that do it because it's a
wonderful business. It’s like an insurance. Business Insurance is great if you get the
premium unless you have a loss. And most of the times you don't have a loss. This is the
construction lenders of paper loss. It's something that they're saying in the future, the only
time they're concerned with the loan to value ratio was in the event they foreclose. If it

goes good, they don't care that it’s meaningless. Right? Yep. Okay. Okay.

32:58

Yeah, thank you. Okay, next. Let's see, we have Ryan, are you on the line? Ryan, are you
there? Okay, | don't think we have Ryan. So let me I'll ask the question on his behalf. So he
has a construction project where he has a general contractor on the project, but no iron

clad agreement in place.
JO

JO

JO

JO

Sone

Why me know ironclad agreement in place, what's what was what, how do you go do that

and go with agreement in place, and somehow, somebody dropped the ball.

33:33

That's how that's what it sounds like. He's in a position right now where he needs to
litigate against this general contractor, and really, for subpar work, and for a magnitude
of ongoing issues. And these are his words, not mine. And so the question is, what what

can he do hear if he doesn't have a solid agreement?

33:56

There's no solid agreement, he’s gonna he's gonna have a big problem. If he did have a
solid agreement, you have a big problem. But at this point, the fact that you're doing
business without a agreement in place on a 404, GCS. That's just doesn't make sense.
Does it make sense to do it this way? You go, you're trusting the GC Good. Now you found
out you made a mistake, because you're going to eat it, you're not going to win. It’s
lawsuits are expensive, and they don't usually work out. And the fact that you can pin
down the requirements, you say, Are you going to build this you're going to hate it what
type of guarantees to give me a one year guarantee or whatever it is, is you're going to
build it up to par, you're going to come in on a period of time are you going to meet the
timeframe? In other words, the obligations of what the contract the GC is supposed to do
and what the the principal is going to pay him has to be five done. The beginning you do
if you if you don't put it in place at that point. Oh my God have mercy because you just
don't have If you put all your faith in the person and the person involved and you found
out, you got the wrong guy, he delivered you sub sub sub prior of the work and you got all
kinds of problems. And yeah, that's good. But what do you got what you got to point to
and say what he did wrong? Where the guarantees? Were? Did you get a five year
guarantee a three year guarantee a one year guarantee? Is it backed up by an insurance
company? Do |? How do | know I'm going to get what | want? I'm painful. The question is,
is don't do business. On that basis, wnen somebody dies, you're not ready to where you
can't win. Where you're relying on the good faith or the reputation of the person or the

reputation of the company? No, you gotta have you want to do it with a do business |

22:01

want | want an agreement that | can point to, well, Ryan situation is particularly bad, let's
JO

JO

jo

JO

the Democratic Party and how they have acted in the past a year and | think that's turned
off a lot of a lot of voters because if they weren't very concerned about what the
democrats did with Cavanaugh and what they started putting on the you know they did
they put on the not gonna vote for him no matter the vote for anybody no matter who it
was. And they've been could construct your have been against everything, not for
anything. And they haven't really come out with a with a part with a plan with a part what
is what are they What are they right? What are they going to do? It's just there's nothing
there. So | think that these are, these are the intangibles. | don’t know how it's going to
affect it. | think it’s going to depends on the locality where it's involved. So people in Texas
might have one things that they're concerned with people in lowa different. So it's, it's a
toss up as far as I'm concerned. But | think that it’s not going to be as bad a loss as it was

typically in an off an off grid election.

10:21

Historically, voter turnout for midterm elections has been much lower. And what I've heard
from some of my colleagues in Texas is that some of the numbers for advanced polling in

just one day have exceeded the total voter turnout than compared with

10:35

the whole. Yeah, yeah. It's really what what's scary on the difference is that the turnout is
as big as it is, or bigger than a present for a prison presidential election. Yeah. That's,

that's scary. That never happened before.

10:51

| don't know if it’s scary. Think it's a good thing. | think the population

10:53

is a good thing. It is a good thing. The more people out and the more people get involved,
the better it is. There's no question about it. And who which party is going to benefit by it? |
don't know. But | think it’s great to see that they've got so many so many more citizens,
which are interested in voting for what's going on in the country and amidst it in the mid

season. | think that's great.
JO

JO

JO

Right, that’s actually exactly the message that I've been trying to pass to my partners.

And like | said, they agree. But

14:23

| gotta agree, you got to do it. You have to do it, you have to do it. In other words, right
now, you can't trust any of the information you're getting from the third partner. He is not
a financial person. Correct as well. You're telling me he's involved in operations or, or, or
things, keeping the thing, that's fine. But every major entity that's successful, has
somebody that keeps keeping the books are being countered. He says those are how
much you're making, how much you're losing, and also runs projections, so that you know
what your expenses are going to be at a given period of time and matches the end.
income and expenses against that. So you have an annual budget, how much is coming in
or going out in a year. And then you get reports back say, Well, this is what happened this
month, this was wrong. This was that we got less income. Well, we had an expenditure we
hadn't seen. But that's the only way that you can really get a good feel for it. Because you
have an independent party, looking at things rather than somebody who's totally involved
and say, Well, | should do better, I'm going to collect more on this with this time, we'll be
able to make a distribution, you need somebody that’s purely involved in the financial

aspect, but not a partner. Right?

15:37

Yeah, they seem to be when the message but the the action is not taken, and I'm not sure

how to what you gotta do, you gotta tell him, you gotta you gotta tell him at this point. If

15:46

not, you're gonna have serious problem with your investors, you're gonna lose all
credibility. And not only that, you've you're gonna have you do have a total distrust of
anything that you get from the part from the third party, you're not going to believe
anything that he says or anything, because he's going to fudge and change the numbers
around at that point, if he thinks if it looks bad, he’s not going to tell you the truth. Right?
And then so therefore, but you don't know. So you know, he's not gonna tell you to if you
really don't know how bad it is, because he's not not giving you correct information. He's
got to try to protect himself. And so it's the wrong thing to do then. So you need in the
operation, you need total transparency. Yes. This is what comes in, this is the expenditures,
this is what we do. And this is the future, how we're going to handle it in the future. Do we

need contingencies? | mean, you may, it may turn out that you, as far as the investors, you
JO

JO

JO

JO

forward. If you're now following whoever is falling, if they're following what the President is
doing now, he is moderating his positions. suffer. We can't do a drastically because it loses
base. But if you look at this point, he’s coming. He’s coming out more as he should be.
Yeah, he came out vehemently against Saudi Arabia, but the people who did it the app,
right, not the country, which is, which is to me is important. You can't You can't blame a

country because one bad apple, or a few bad apples,

07:15

right. So they named 21 individuals that they're loving sanctions against those 21

individuals. But so far, the the the Crown Prince has managed to save face, somewhat.

07:26

Yes, yes. And he came out and faced it. So | will do so it's, it's a horrible thing. It's a terrible
thing. But trust me, in the two to three weeks, this will be a non issue that just pass off the
wayside is something that happened in it. It was carried because it was a horrendous act.
And this gets captured the imagination in the minds of all peace loving people. But it's it's

one of the things it'll just disappear. unfortunate, but that’s what will happen.

07:59

We're coming up on the midterm elections, any any predictions from your end?

08:03

It's hard, it’s hard for me to push, | think that it's going to come out better for Trump and
for the republicans than they had anticipated before. | don't think they're going to lose as
many seats. And the reason | think that is there are two factors, which we would filter into.
One thing it filters into it is the the fact that the press is doing it all is barns storming, |
mean, he’s all over the place with all kinds of rallies, petroleum is based, and people listen
to him, whether they like him or not seeing him talk in front of all these people, they're
hearing him they may still vote any way that they want. But it is true. If you look at the the
the fact the republicans are ones coming out in droves in big numbers for the election, or
for a midterm election, which they never had before. They're coming out in big numbers
now. Maybe, maybe they'll come out and vote vote democratic or they'll vote
independent. | don't know. But nevertheless, they they're they're energized so that's the

first element involved the second element is involved is what has happened with the the
JO

JO

JO

Well,

52:46

it's well, it’s, the first part is is, is easy. The second part is what difficult, and that is that
when you are doing any real estate transaction of any, any magnitude, will always involve
with doing due diligence. And as the attorneys or the that were involved, we would do our
due diligence, in other words, say what's involved in connection with this transaction. And
they go into deep information, as much as you can't see what's going on in the area, what
the mortgage job, what the vacancy rate is, what the tax rates are involved, how long it
takes you to get permits, and then you come up with a total project. So his is the project
and here are the all of the facts involves the due diligence. And if the due diligence, says
don't do the project, don't do it. If it's due diligence, says, Hey, your return is going to be
too low, it's going to take you too long, then you don't do it. But you have to do the
project, you have to do the you have to turn over the rocks to find out what they're where
the worms are. This is what you have to do. If the depth point you if your belief is it's a
great deal, you'll see look at whatever it takes to confirm it's a great deal. So you're not

going to look at this information. And that's harmful.

54:08

So it's really taking that dispassionate view at the outset until until you really complete

the work.

54:13

Yes. Yes, | poured before example, at this point, I'll give you a concrete example | did ona
particular project is that leasing to tenants and they would pay usually they would pay
their share of increases in taxes. That would they pay typical so we'll have two buildings
built if the tax goes increase, it's up what you pay it as part of your part of your rent and
came up with a different concept to say for that. You won't you pay everything over $5 a
square foot and right now, the taxes on this type of building are $4 a square foot so you
make $1 right away. Because it’s going to be your bureau you got a higher level than is at
the max reality. And | gave them a list of all of buildings in the area, the same thing that
came out at less than $5 a square foot. And these were the representatives. So said, Look
at all these buildings similar to yours, and they're at $4 a square foot, and | make you, you,
instead of paying you, you pay your share over $4, you pay your share of $5, you've got $1
to play around with. And you know what happened, the lawyers, the ones who voted were

satisfied, because all of the information | gave them was factually correct. What they
JO

JO

JO

01:46

Well, | wouldn't sell out at that point, | think you could maximize your leverage that way.
It's always been my philosophy is worked out, borrow as much as you can for as long as
you can, as long as you have the right to prepaid. That's always been my philosophy, and
it works out. Because if the market, if the rates go up, you solidified your position, if rates
go down, you can refinance and improve your position. | think we're in turbulent times
now. But | think, you know, you would just have to wait a while, | think it'll resolve itself
over a period of time, you know, the effect it displays as far as markets because the effect
of what's going to happen, because with the gross with the GNP going 5%. At this, the
effects of that hasn't really figured In other words, that hasn't turned out to be dollars for
the government. But it will, over time, it has to be that money will funnel back into into
GM probably make more money, they're going to pay more taxes. | say that pay more
taxes to pay at a lower rate. But there's So the end result will be more taxes, the end result
will be more income, but you don't see it yet. Right. So you don't have that that is that
effect. Also, there'll be a lot of money coming in from overseas, now that they've permitted
to be recaptured in the United States. And without that without tremendous penalties,
that also will have a driving effect. It's got to be invested in somewhere. It's invested
somewhere, you've got more businesses more income. And it just hasn't gotten down to

the sort of bottom line. You're talking about companies that

03:17

| think are companies like Google and Apple repatriating retained earnings that are

currently offshore in Maryland. Absolutely.

03:25

Absolutely. And they rarely any other company. Absolutely. Right. And | don’t think to the
effect of if you look at the the the growth factors of Google and the that you have on
Apple is unbelievable. I'm going to go on, they're out of sight. And the potential is there.
It's a it’s just, | think we're at a time where the market hasn't, hasn't caught up with its
potential, but has caught up with the actualities and the just in a turbulent time because
of the difference in the tax structure and also the what's going on in the in the world
makes a difference. And you've also got to take into account at this. A lot of the buyers
that were there the world foreign companies were foreign countries that were buying the
bottle, which came from Japan, from China. Yes. So China has a lot of it. Well, China right

now. Yeah, they're slowing down because of what's going on in the US the tension
JO

JO

somehow somewhere, you sue you or somebody you'll be has to have the big stake in the
deal. And if they say, hey, at this point, | mean, assume now that you're you're looking to
syndicate $5 million. So you say okay, $5 million, but how much have you got in there?
1,000,025 20%. So you have to have it. So say, say we're looking to syndicate, our 5
million, I'm putting in one on 25%. In it, they like that, if you have skin in the game, they
will deal with you. If you don't, it’s pure speculation. You have to show them exactly what
you're going to do what you're going to lose, not what you're going to do you have such
faith in what you're doing, that you're ready to accomplish it. And sometimes, what this
involves is that you have a position where you have an option away to get out, or you
have logs or refunds, where you may have to pay more to pay a premium to get
somebody to fill it to fill the gap while you're looking for investment. Makes a lot of times.
Yep, that’s the way to do it. And then we know what, once you do it, you have no problem.
Because you got them forever. Yeah, exactly. To get the first one day will tell and they'll
tell their all their friends and everything. Look at the beautiful investment | got. And when
you start learning start to see the returns and you're delivering what you said you're going
to deliver they have they become your best sookesman and the best testimonials you

need for it just the question who you're going to keep out or who you're going to leave in.
Exactly. Perfect. Thank you,

23:30

George, any thoughts on how Matt can get past the gatekeepers? Or if he should, he

should even try?

23:38

| don't | wouldn't even try that this is going to get faster. The only thing to do is this this
element is effectively you got to show up you show returns there has to be some type of
guarantee something to do it, you got to give them some type of some type of protection.
So you may need you may be the ones like buying an insurance policy, you have to say
I'm buying I'm protecting you against the catastrophe, some type of thing and say, Okay, |
can't it's not a total loss. Maybe | won't instead of getting a five or 8% 6% return I'll get a
5% return some protection, some safeties out that you have to get on the table to say the
worst it'll happen is this so that they have to break if the worst gonna happen, they get
nothing or they were wiped out. That's no good. If you say okay, the worst thing to happen
to you, you return a good doc or | will get investors to buy you out. Now, one of the one of
the Scituate, one of the devices which worked very well, is he say to look, you go you go
into my deal, but | want the right to buy you out in three years. At a 30% increase in value.
What happens is basically what | mean like 30% that must mean who's good. Why should
JO

JO

| say it must be worth more otherwise you wouldn't want to buy it up. But it usually shows
that you have faith in doing it not to the extent that you can say sir, we'll buy you up but
you Never really | added that minimum of 80% of your investment. So you've limited the
exposure to say it’s only 20%. That could work too. So there's some way of limiting the
exposure of the of the investor who's first coming into the, into the transaction without
having a satisfactory interviewers interview of track record. He added, he doesn't know
you that well. You got to throw something on the table. And once you do it, and it works,
it's good. Because you'll never have it, and then be prepared to negotiate it away. Right.
And that won't happen. What will happen is okay, I'm not making 8%. So I'm making 7%.
Big deal, but they're in the deal. You understand? It didn’t turn out the way it was, but it's
still not total. It's not horrible. Very rarely you have done deals that are that are that bad if
the if the if the syndicator is good enough. It's just total fiasco, in a short period of time

doesn't usually work that way. Until what you have to do is get him in and by time

26:02

he basically | make a deal sweet enough that it’s worth the risk. Yes. Yeah. So it gave him

some safety.

26:09

Fine. | mean, I've had I've had people that just wanted that | put in mortgages, you know,
the more you say, Hey, you know what? You don't like it, I'll buy you out. I'll give you a
personal guarantee you buy out that covers most I'd like full confidence in that never
happened. deceptive, we went through it because the deal worked fine. And never had to
buy him out. And they didn't want to get bought out. There were too Well, yeah, it didn't
true. So it didn't. So it was it was nice to to have it. But that's like insurance. Insurance is
nice. But if you don’t have the loss, what good is the insurance is wasted money. So it's
giving zUv giving your investors or your the people who participate in your syndicate, you
have the assurance of some type of safety, which will probably never happen. And if it
does happen, you can go back and negotiate. Well, it wasn’t it wasn't what | had, but it's
not a total loss. Once you get their money invested, they don’t want it back. It's human
nature to want it back. That's what it is. And if it is working at all. Yeah, if it's working at alll,
very rarely, definitely did they say they'll give me or give me everything back? I'll tell you
what, I'll give you half now I'll give you later on we'll make all kinds of for you when the
catastrophe arises, if and when it arises, you can come back. And usually if you if you've
done your homework complaining, it's not good. It's not good. There's not a major
catastrophe. Depending upon the risk of the market is worse, what have they you don't

get as much rental as by Something came up. But it’s not usually the total loss. Thank you.
Ollee

PC+-+October+2019+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross+

gp Thu, 9/92:37PM @ 57:54

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

investors, point, pay, question, buy, deal, people, gc, project, money, george, syndication, lien,

building, problem, bad, return, long, happen, involved

JO

JO

00:00

Hey syndication mastery club, it's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:05

Well welcome everyone to our monthly mastermind with Mr. George Ross. And of course,
George was executive vice president in the Trump Organization for many, many years.
right hand man to Mr. Trump, author of two best selling books on real estate and
negotiation, taught in the law school at NYU for over 20 years in business for over 60
years. Married for how long? George below 6566? That's amazing, but it's amazing. Well,
welcome, George, good to be here. No, George, we're living in pretty turbulent, interesting
times. You know, the stock market indices are all over the place. And today, the markets
are four and a half percent. You've got major tech companies like Nvidia down 23%, this
month AMD down 28%. | mean, Texas Instruments lost 8% today, and we've got treasury
bills. Now the yields have gone up to at least short term records. And the thing that's most
concerning, is the foreign demand for US Treasuries has dropped significantly, if you go
back to 2009. Over half of US Treasuries had foreign buyers today, that's down to 41%.
trades, ultimately, if demand falls for those yields are gonna have to go up again, which
mean interest rates are going to go up simply because the US is seen as not as good an
investment, maybe as it once was. | guess the question is, if these yields are going up, and
there's a risk premium being attached to the US, should we be focusing as investors on
borrowing more and maximizing our leverage or selling assets and de leveraging? What

are your thoughts on this next cycle? What How should we prepare ourselves?
JO

JO

jo

say | think I'll probably everyone on the call can relate to the situation. And if we back up
from that to a more, let’s say, reasonable situation, even when you like you said you have
an agreement in place. Getting rid of a GC or having someone to speak with the GC is

always

36:14

not only GC, right? solving a dispute with anybody that you have a contractual
arrangement with. That's always a problem. litigation is expensive. It's time consuming, it's
expensive. And you have to figure out at that point, what's worse, taking the loss? How
much am | willing to lose is resulting in how do | resolve it? And it basically is how do you
know you're dealing with somebody of substance or consequence, you got to look at their
reputation, you look at their financial statements, you find out before you go into them
how how other people have dealt with them have on the honorable at this, find out what
they were their relationship is with the Better Business Bureau and satisfied then yeah, I'm
doing the right person with the right company. And you do as much as you can, and
hopefully that you'd live at work. But if you don't do the investigation, don't do it, then

knew you're at your own peril.

37:12

What | liked about this question, you know, GCS have this trump card that they can play
called a mechanic's lien that can literally gap tie you up and so they carry more than their

fair share of the negotiating leverage with that weapon.

37:24

How you're excited experience how Yeah, it is but nevertheless, hey, Yes, that's true, but
you can always bond them mechanically true. So he would always bought into mechanic's
lien at that point, say good now. Now you could park it mechanically. You're going to sue
me to collect what's due to you. You can't get it out of their property. You got to get it from
my insurance company. Wow. That's a whole different ballgame for them because they
can't hold you up anymore. They got to finish love it was once you bonded the mechanic's
lien you don't have to have the lien. You can do your mortgage, you can do everything
else. It's like like just | owe you money but you don't have my property. You can't stop me
from building yes mechanic's liens are big for a contractor but generally speaking, only
because the the main party is so concerned that they can't get too worried about the
mechanic's lien and they let them hold let the contract effectively stymie the project. In

other words, they can especially sabotage because they've got the lien and without that
JO

JO

_)O

JO

11:15

Awesome. Okay, so let's start with the first question. Let’s go with Alina, Alina, are you on
the line?

11:25

Okay, perfect. Go ahead. Hi, there. Hi, my name is Ollie, how are you? I'm fine. So here's
the situation, | bought an apartment complex with two partners through a syndication
and myself and another partner were involved in the capital raising part. The third partner
is our boots on the ground. And he's been doing his best in terms of construction and
renovations and leasing, leasing the apartments and everything. And, you know, he’s he's
doing a decent job with that. However, I'm not that happy with the way he manages, you
know, the the financial component. So, the fiscal management is not up to par to my
standards. To give you an example, for instance, the financial statements include the
income statement, however, there is no balance sheet at all. And | have spoken with both
of the partners, trying to convince them to the things needs to be done differently,
especially when investors are involved. And they seem to agree with me in the
conversation, but in reality, nothing is really happening. So the investors, for instance,

have never seen the distributions last time. And, you know, I'm,

12:59

I'm looking for ways to convince my partner to not only agree with me, but also take
action and, you know, allow me to more or less, take control over the situation. But I'm
not, | don’t know, | understand what you're saying. But | think the basic problem was not
one of the partners taking control of the financial aspects. To me, that's, that's the wrong
way to go. The wrong way to go is to get somebody like a either an accountant or a
business manager, as they were on the numbers, they do the numbers, let them keep alll
the records, and funneling the information back to the partners. Just ridiculous, the fact
that you can't do that, and the fact that also, that you haven't made distributions to your
investors, that's also something that's very serious. But you need an independent voice,
giving you the facts and the figures, to the partners and let the partners decide what's
best to be done. You don't take somebody who's involved in construction, or math or
operation and put them into financial capacity. That's why they have, you know, financial

offices.

14:14
jo

JO

You're welcome. So George, the

27:53

next question is from my business. And we have a number of local banks that are, frankly,
becoming more conservative in their lending criteria. They're typically offering a lower
loan to cost ratio compared with even six months ago. And we're starting to come across
a larger number of mostly New York based lending platforms that specialize in
construction loans. And that’s everything from, you know, some of the bigger brand
names like meridian capital, or some of the smaller funds, you know, a lot of them have
Lexington Avenue or Third Avenue addresses. What's been your experience with these

types of construction lenders? And what advice would you have for or negotiate?

28:36

Anyway, say, there’s not much you're going to negotiate with? Because they this is this is
their what they're figuring on is the return on capital that they're investing. But
construction lenders are short term if they're not, they're not usually the end result?
Correct? Right. So just saying, so cost you a little more, it's like, what happens if the cost of
steel goes up, and it costs you more for to build your buildings, other costs come up, this is
just another expense, the cost of, of the getting the construction loan, and borrowing at
that point went up, and over a period of time. Welcome to the market. This has business.
Yeah, and that's what it is you have to do with it. And the end result is, yeah, if you're
going to add it the same way, like any other any other course it happens in, it's going to
happen. I'd see as lenders get nervous depending upon the year, the years of the
marketplace. For example, if the sale of new homes is down the market is it looks like it's
down and you go construction lender, you're building new homes, they want a little more
protection, so therefore, they want they don't want to own as much they want a higher
loan to value ratio, and therefore they want to watch that happens. Well, they may want
some type of a guarantee. Now one of the things you can do is to buy So by someone who
covered the gap, in other words, you say, Good, I'll guarantee that take that below 20% of
your loan, whatever it is whatever they would be covered by having the the increased

loan to value ratio. At that point you say good, I'll cover the spread, with or without, with
some other guarantee. And there are companies which do that there are London's we do
that because you know what they want? There's no, there’s no cash exposure. In the
immediate, it's only in the future, maybe it's a contingent liability, not as correct. But it
gives me it's like, you know, if somebody, somebody borrows borrowed money, if you can
get a cosigner that's got a good bank account banks like that, anything that’s going to

solidify the you're the risk of it, they envision in the construction loan, which at any time is
JO

JO

JO

JO

may not be able to give them the return for a long period of time, you may have to reduce
the rate of return based on actual numbers, but you have to know the numbers and they
have to be certified in a way from a financial standpoint from an accountant or what
have you that they can't be, you know, they can't be attacked. These are the facts. You
can't get it now through the way you have it set up. You got the wrong person doing the

doing the fiscal management. Thank you. You're welcome. All right, what's next?

17:10

Okay, next, we have Randy hubbs. Randy, are you on the line?

17:16

lam. Perfect. Go ahead. Can you hear me now? Yeah. Hi, Randy, what's up? Hey, I've got a
question for you. Because you've obviously done some very, very big deals. And I'm sure
Joe was some very high up government entities. And so I'm wondering if you can provide
some insights and strategies as to how we can work our way up the ladder, when it comes
to having a discussion with these government officials in high places who actually have
influence or decision making, | understand where you're coming in, the only way you're
going to do it is to head deal with somebody on your behalf to tax the year of the
company or the group that you're trying to work with has been successful in the past. It’s
highly political. It's highly political, you cannot do it yourself. Unless you have the political
connections. And some reason for them to do business with you. They're not going to
listen to you it's not it’s not it's unfortunate, but that’s what it is. For example, that they
had when when we did when Donald Trump did the deal on the Commodore Hotel at this
point, he was 27 years old, he had he had a somebody who has was well respected in the
industry with the city and getting money from the city and getting the politicians in line to
do what had to be done. So he would like a lobbyist. And that’s what you're left with. You
need somebody that's, that has the ability to contact the organization you want and
convinced them how to use why they why they need you and how to deal with you.

Without having that connection. You're doomed for failure. Got it?

18:51

So for example, George, what do you recommend maybe a former state representative or

18:55
JO

_)O

JO

JO

between the United States and China over the tariffs and over the trade has a lot to do
with it. But that too will resolve. It has to because China needs us more than we need
China. It's hard to say that. But they will they will lie upon over the goods being bought in
the United States. | just haven't come back there yet. Because it's still playing politics with
one another but it'll it'll work out | am firmly believed to workout. But | tried | wouldn't go
into a panic selling but you might you might decide that you want to sell off some stuff
and reduce or reduce your holdings. But | think over the long run, it'll It'll resolve itself in

the short run. It's a roller coaster.

05:04

Very interesting. And, sir, certainly, you know, the White House taking a very pragmatic
approach with respect to Saudi Arabia. | mean, what's happened over the last three
weeks has been ideologically a problem. And yet from an economic standpoint, cooling

off relations with Saudi Arabia would be disastrous for both countries.

05:25

Yes. Yes, absolutely. Well, that's a horrible thing that happened, but we need each other.
We need each other. And this | think, will will come out it will be it’s not, it’s not going to tilt
it down. As far as he will think, yeah, there's some bad apples, who are some people in the
Saudi Arabian government or somehow No, but that's all kind of come out. And they're
going to be penalized, they'll probably be tried to probably be convicted in the all that,
but this is just bad circumstances. The credit really isn't anything that has to do with the
total government. Yeah, yeah, that makes sense. | still think they should just drunk control.
They've got a lot of they got a lot of money, they go out. And they're a big staple is as

against a rant, which is delicious, which is very important in the in the world. Yeah, this

06:16

is such a fascinating case study in negotiation. And, you know, when | watch what's
happening in the news, I'm very mindful of reading various chapters of your book, and
saying, Okay, | see where this is going. You can really almost see the playbook, play by

play. It's quite fascinating.

06:33

It is. Yeah, | agree with it. Wonderful. But | think if you, if we look back or Look, look, look
JO

JO

JO

will that you know, and they can rely upon it. And even though it’s not that may not be
totally, factually totally correct, they can rely upon it. And there's this feeling of trust in
you as the as the party, that you're giving him the fiscal, you're giving them an honest, an
honest story. It may not be as good as they had in mind. But a test that’s doing business
doesn't always work the way you had in mind. But at least | wanted on dealing with an

with an honest syndication.

47:33

Sure. So in in terms of | would in general be inclined to give a little bit of a summary of the
information from my perspective just to give them absolutely things are going as we
expected to find a patch salutely.

47:47

Absolutely. Okay, give it a review, if they are going the way it is. and periodicals, like you
have a newsletter to your investors fine, just to keep you up to everything is going
according to schedule. As a matter of fact, it’s going better because we're getting higher
prices than we thought. However, at that point, we have the following the following
expenses look like they may be higher, but the end result is going to work. That more
information they give you they love you for it, because they think they're getting
information in a timely fashion. | wouldn't fluff it to make it look better than it is. But no, |
would. Or maybe | wouldn't do the other way to make it worse than it is. So you're now
indicating trends which are taking place. And the relying to anchor dollars to purpose
again, you're not asking him for money, you're not taking away money, all you're doing is
telling them the nature of their investment, and how it's progressing. Wonderful. That's the

key of A good syndication. Perfect, that's very helpful. Thank you very much.

48:48

So Georgia related, I'm just gonna build on Shannon's question here. Because one of the
things that's been recommended to me recently, by another syndicator is this idea that
when you're producing reports, to investors, let's say you have three projects, you could
send that custom report to each of the investors for each project, or you could send the
reports for all of the projects to all of your investors. So they the investors would have
visibility of things that they're not currently invested in. What are your thoughts on that?
JO

JO

49:21

No. No, don't like it. That's what | was guessing you were gonna say, | don't like it. No, |
don't like it because you're giving you the information is going to come back to haunt you.
If there are projects that are not invested in, they're showing a higher rate of return,
they're going to say, why am | not in that one? The Joe's a laidley of yours. If you chose a
low rate of return, at this point, they're not going to be the end. They're gonna say, well,
we are It’s okay. They're going to take the best of any of those reports or those projects.
And they're going to use that anyway. they see fit to go to take the high spots or low
spots, and they're going to critic criticize you. Why didn't you put me in this deal, when
you put me in a deal, which wasn't as good, keep them separate too much information
from other deals that are not good, this is become misleading, it's a good idea to show
how to show how good you are. But not it’s not something that will be generally utilized to
start in other ways. If you have a company that has different styles, different advantages
in different places, different projects, there's no purpose don't go through the whole
company they deal. Specifically the investors in a specific, specific project, give them alll
the information on that, but not general information on the company in general. So that's
my thought | would not do that at all. It's going to make you look bad. Or look good.
Either event, this blood, but that's not what you want. Because it’s the store, you're taking
a transaction or an investment, which this person or the group is not involved with, and
showing them this is good the same way you'd say, well, the average return on the Office
of office projects is 10%. And this is a number that that's no good if your project may be
less than 10% or 8%. And he can't, it also depends on where it is the nature of the
tendencies to too many variables. So you don't want to draw that is a distinction, throw it
out there. That makes sense. Yeah, that makes sense. And if you pay if you're getting
more, or you're you're paying more than that, they're not going to applaud you for the
fact that the average is 8% that you pay me 10. You're not going to applaud you gotta
say that's nice, but that’s right. Right. Right.

51:53

Okay, very good advice. Very good advice. Okay. Okay, you walk. Next. This is kind of a
more general question. And I'm sure everyone can relate to this. And it’s really a research
question. And when you perform research, you can really be looking for two types of
information. Number one, you could be looking to actually find out the truth. or number
two, you could be looking to confirm your existing belief. And my experience, actually,
most people do the latter without even consciously knowing that's what they're doing. So
they find confirmation of their of their bias. And they say, Okay, I'm done. Now, yeah, you
know, your experience as an attorney, I'm sure you didn't do that. How did you? How did

you overcome that natural human bias? And how do you? How do you instill that? And?
JO

_)O

this, these things did come up. | thought you were going to that we did everything was
going to come in at this price. And meanwhile it came in more for one reason | couldn't
couldn't rent out the apartments. | couldn't sell the units. With longer time It cost me more
interim borrowing. construction costs went up, and therefore change. As long as you give
them the information in an orderly fashion. And it’s factual. You haven't total, they're fine.
It's when you try to fudge that you have a problem. Why didn't you tell me it was as bad
as it was? Why didn't you tell me this was You lied to me? Then you have a problem. But as

long as you're honest, as bad as it is, still stick with you.

44:40

Right? Okay. So in this case, it’s not bad. It’s good. And well, you know, | mean, so far, it just
started so far, thankfully, it's good. Um, so in terms of telling, obviously, we're going to give
facts like we purchased this number of units. We have this many under contract, that kind
of thing. Would you give them dates and things like that? And then do we? What amount

of like narrative is? His interest is interesting? No, the,

45:11

the factual. Okay, we don't have to factor Yes, we have this amount of units, we have this
amount of contracts we're covering for this, this what it is we've anticipated, they put up
20% of the debt, we've got an 80%. We agree with our contracts with they're going to buy
it that's factual. That's what Yeah, the fact that it didn’t happen, or will happen, that is a
future result is not not something you put initially, you always assume everything is going
to go the way you have in mind. It’s gonna be great. It's gonna be beautiful hope. So.
Hope now, it may turn out to be that way, it may turn out to be better, it may turn out to
be slightly worse. But that's part of the of doing business in real estate. That's that things
can change, as long as you have a pipeline to your investors. And they can trust what you
say. You're right. And the best thing you can do is to alert them before it turns out to be
real bad. So now you say look, so look, we we had anticipated, we're going to make this
return. But right now, because of A, B and C at this point, it doesn't look like we're able to
meet those projections. Now, you have not met the production projections. But you've
alerted them, that there is some some there may be some change, that they're satisfied
with that they don’t they understand that they're in business and they're savvy investors,
things could go change, they could go down. That happened. But you don't they don't
want to be surprised. You don't want to say, hey, find your way your investment is worth
40% less. And all of a sudden, they say, why didn't | know this? Why didn't you tell me
what did you know? So | could make arrangements. | could decide what | wanted. Maybe |

wanted to sell that investment and loss. So it’s like, giving them the information that you
