JO

JO

JO

don't see it. What | see is somebody's got to straighten the appraiser out because he's

where he's way off base. Okay.

44:45

Yep. That Yeah, we're we are making significant, you know,

44:49

that he's way off base to disclose or whatever is the what | would suggest that you do and
it's easy enough to do is you convince the bank Whatever is required to be done in order
to comply with the existing the new zoning we will do at our expense. Right. Okay. Yeah.
What's that? Is that That sounds good. But yeah, there's nothing you're going to do. Right?
You're going to do that anyway. Yep. Okay, so they can feel a little better. But he is way off
base to come up and say that the fact that the zoning has changed, and might be slightly
more restrictive, is going to have an adverse effect on the value of the property. Okay,
that's all that's all. That's all base unless you will not be we will not permitted to rebuild
what was there? In other words, what I'm saying is this if, in fact, if, if what you built is
there, and now it gets, it gets damaged because of a fire? And the zoning says, No, you
can't do that. Now. In other words, you not had had space, a space that had one
bathroom pour, for three bedrooms now. You got to do it’s got to be more a bit more
bathrooms. So you got to put in more bathrooms. That's it, that is possible, but that's all
dollars. Okay. That makes sense. That's all dollars. Okay. Well, that that reassurance got

to bed, the appraisers way off base. Okay. Thank you. Okay.

46:25

Okay. Next, this question relates to a development site that's got a state critical area
overlay on top of the local zoning. Now development is allowed to happen in the area, but
it's subject to some additional rules, and approvals from the state level. So it's much more
restrictive than the local zoning has a lot to do with conservation, with the waterfront,
ensuring protection of water species and habitat. So there's a lot of restrictions on what
can be built there. The question is, if we want to build if we want to hold events on that
space, so this is that same area, where we're talking about that hotel, that that hotel room
restriction, in terms of density, if we were to erect temporary structures, imagine
something like a circus tent or wedding tents in that countryside setting? How long do
those structures need to be erected before they become considered permanent
structures? Do you have to dismantle them? How do you see that playing out? Is there a

possibility of threading the needle by using temporary structures without having to get a
JO

_)O

people, you are not losing your property, you're not selling your property, you're leasing
your property for a long term. So you got a fixed rate of income going forward for this for
you, for your children, for 75 years, or whatever the length life, you're not selling five, you
will get you're gonna get wiped out, right? They still own it. That's correct. That's correct.
At the end of the ground, lease, they all own it, they all own it on a combined basis. In
other words, they all own a piece of combined opera of combined operation, whatever it
may be. Now, that could be sold, there is like a provision in it, and what happens when the
lease is gone? Or that how do you term valuation who gets what you can have appraisers
that it works, the reason it works is you're putting off the present into the future. So you're
now saying, hey, what you got now is a suspect, is it there are other things in the area, and
now we're going to make you part of a package, and you're not losing your property,
you're going to get a fixed regular return. And you're going to be a part owner of a major
development, a major development, which covers a whole bunch of of different properties
with different ideas. And effectively, any of the properties could be developed separately.
But you know, because they're all covered on one master one, overall lease, it's not their
individual leases. But whoever has puts the package together, they could decide to tear
down the two storey buildings and put 12 storey buildings or board up, change some of
the area. So I'm a commercial. So we make residential, you can build houses, you can do a
whole bunch of things, you have the flexibility, but your budget, because you're dealing
with the individual portions of the site with an overall concept, which is not controlled by

the owners of the land.

22:21

I'm almost reluctant to ask this next question, because I'm expecting you're going to say it
depends. But do you? Do you have any rules of thumb on what percentage of the value
would be payable on a monthly basis. So let's say you have a 99 year lease, and the
property's worth $10 million, we have centage of that 10 million would be a fair lease rate

ona monthly basis.

22:46

It depends on the properties involved, | would say fair, but | think you're talking about
somebody who knows who goes in and they've got a guaranteed interest rate of six or 7%
a year with some escalation, based upon the cost of living are just generally inflationary.
So it’s not fixed. But it the number would be the same. But there's a revaluation at a point
in time to take into account something that may have happened at the end of 10 years, 15
years if one of us and you make some kind of a reevaluation, based on the view or

evaluation of the whole package. Yeah, it does work. It does work. | mean, I've seen it
JO

JO

JO

increase the density? It just it just changed the utility of this the same space? So | don't see
it. | don’t see it as a problem. | really don't. Okay, okay. And, and the, the concept is easy
enough to sell to whoever is the initial value, what does they say, look? If, if | can't lease if |
can't rent this space out to a family was that needs three bedrooms? Or so is it’s the
equivalent of three families or whoever in the three bedroom? Well, shouldn't | be able to
rent it out to one bedroom to a family, with one bedroom? and so on? So | have the
flexibility of 331 bedroom apartments or once one, the one big one? | don't see. | don't see
this is a problem. | see is a problem with the municipality, because you're not you're not
adding rooms, the rooms were there. What you done is you created this space differently.
But you didn't add rooms tell you it’s sub subdividing space into different different units. |
think it worked, but | would certainly have somebody check it out in the location. But my
feeling is you wouldn't wouldn't have a problem with it. | can't see why there'd be a

problem. Okay. Okay.

42:50

Super. Why don't we go next to Ben? Ben Dickey, are you on the line?

42:55

Hey, welcome. You hear me? and answer my question. Okay. What's the question? Well,
my company has three duplexes all on one lot that was built in 1929. They're currently
zoned residential and across the street from a school since purchasing that there was a
fire two of them. Thankfully, everyone was okay. And renovations are progressing. No
issues there. But the bank though there isn’t no bank, and the bank wanted a new
appraisal. And the appraiser seems very concerned about the current zoning. permit, do
what you can Why is he talking about why | didn't really be concerned about because he
feels like that we're operating and as a commercial property and renting it out. And and |
didn't think it would be an issue. So | was just curious, do you think that there is a zoning

risk here or any snow?

44:00

| should? Honestly what | don't see why there's a zoning issue, not changing the use. Okay,
yeah. And | can see | can see it as a construction issue. The other way the whatever is your
you're not grandfathered into the old probably the old building, they say so if the if the
plumbing doesn't does not change because they've changed the regulations. You've got
to comply with the new regulations, you may have to fire retardancy or whatever else it is.

But other than that you're not. You're not basically not changing the use. Okay, so yeah, |
JO

JO

he collected the money, | get the arm entitled to it, he hasn't paid it all that’s so
fraudulent, then | want damages or whatever flew for with and you come pretty close to

being able to get a good judgment against them for

33:49

what he's done. You can't do that. No. agents, the glue courts have frown upon an agent,
withholding money from the principal, same way from a lawyer withholding escrow funds
from a client. There are very strict rules about data and, you know, give you a lawyer
could be disbarred. And when he collects the rents, he basically is his producer, he’s he
has no interest in the rent except that as collecting it for you, you have no financial
interest. And therefore you that’s an easy one to win and keep it separate. And he said,
Look what you go, we've got summary judgment. And this you're not going to tie them
together. And not the judge, whoever it may be even the same judge over multiple years,
is not going to let it be tied together. The obligation to for an agent to pay monies to the
principal is entirely different than a contract is suing somebody for not for not living up to
the terms of a construction contract, hold and they don't they should not be tied together
and you don't have to tie them together. And there’s a way That's a winner, you're going to
win out in court in court. And the more he fights it, the more you're going to win. Because
the judges gonna see if he’s good. He tries to hold on to that money that he's not entitled
to. That's not going to sit well with any court. There. Yeah. | appreciate it. Yeah, you
answered all my questions. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Good luck. Let's just
separate them out. Okay. And one is going to take a long period of time because you got
from what | understand the you got a lot of a lot of concerns and disagreements is who
did what | didn't finish did finish. They didn't pay me What am | suppose that construction
lawsuit, what that's, that's a whole different animal goes into a lot, a lot more time. And a
lot more evidence is going to be involved, the collection of rent doesn't have that. That's
easy. You collected the running up belongs to me, give it to me. So keep that separate,
and the fact that you have multiple defendants because you've got the different entities
on there's no problem. Excellent, thank you. And it will put them all together with one
lawyer representing all these defendants because you're in the same boat. You're in the
same boat, you're going to defend against the claim by a contractor. And Neil got

different pieces. No problem. Okay, the voice of

36:20

| said the Voice of experience. been there done that? Okay, this next question. from Brad,

he's not able to be on the call, but I'll ask it for him.
JO

JO

JO

JO

36:38

Let's see where did this question go? Okay, so this question relates to zoning and the
permitted uses for a property. Generally zoning, you know, deals with things like density,
land coverage, setbacks, building height, the envelope, all of that sort of thing. And there's
a particular zoning that permits a small number of hotel rooms, or suites per building on a
certain density per acre. And the idea to is to build hotel rooms, where there's a one
bedroom suite with a living room, a breakfast area, two bathrooms, and a separate
bedroom, but one key to get into that one room, ideal for families traveling together. So
it's a suite. Okay. The question is, once the hotel has been in operation for a period of
time, would it make sense to apply for a minor variance to maybe subdivide some of
those rooms having a lock off entryway? So you'd instead come in a single door into a
small vestibule, and then from the vestibule to individually keyed doors with access to
each room? So you could get a portion of the hotel? double the number of keys? What do
you think of that, because at the end of the day, it's not going to greatly increase the

potential number of great,

37:58

it's great. And | don't see that | don't see that the who or the municipality, whoever is
going to disagree. There are many hotels that are built with exactly that idea. Where that
you have suites. The grill, you have you have one entrance into a vestibule. And off that
there are two doors, one goes to one suite, one or one part of it, one goes to the other

suite.

38:24

Okay, but now, let's say for the moment that the zoning, let's say permits us to build, let's
say 4O, let's say 80. rooms. Okay. And that’s the amount that you that will be permitted by

38:33

80. rooms. So fine, right? You have 100. And you didn't make out you didn't do 160? You
may still ad correct. So that didn't see it. | don't see it as a problem. | don't even see it as a
zoning problem. | mean, are there so many hotel many instances or hotels, which have
been built with exactly this concept, where you have, you could have a combination of
two different of two different rooms, or two different suites that come off with a general
vestibule. And you can have any have, you're gonna have two different numbers. And

from there, but nevertheless, it comes right there. So you see, two, two, boom, 212 and 214.
JO

JO

JO

JO

here's the interesting thing. If you're, if you're cynical at all, for members of parliament to
be guaranteed their pension, they need to be in the house for at least | forget to say 18 or
24 months. So you're not going to see a motion of non confidence until all of those
benefits are vested for the new members of parliament. Then after that, | think it’s open

season

08:47

that is interesting. Okay, that keeps things quiet for a while for a little bit.

08:56

Okay, let’s go on what's next. Okay, so next, solve the problems and the election either
here in the United States or Canada? No, indeed. Okay, so next we've got SAP s AP. Are
you on the line? press star six to unmute. Can you hear me? Yes, perfectly. | could hear
now. Yeah. Yes, | can hear. | have bad reception. Have you?

09:23

call back in and then we'll come back to you. Okay. We'll come back to SAP after he

reconnects. Okay, let's go to let's go to Matt. Matt. Are you on the line?

09:35

You guys know, right? Yes. Okay. Perfect. So it’s a it’s a bit of a long story with the question
at the end, so bear with me. Sure. There's, there’s a seller that's approached us with an off
market deal, the property itself to make good development site, but we want to assemble
the neighboring parcel to make it a great deal. The seller is a church which is governed by
a board that seems that the board is influenced heavily by the pasture. who appears to be
the main negotiator. The property is zoned for a six storey building by right, we can do
60,000 square feet on the single property. It's a bit small, but it's viable. The neighboring
property has retail soace and second storey office space. It's an older 1960s vintage
construction with acceptable finishes. For a building of its age. The owner of the
neighboring property consists of a complex ownership structure of several partners,
including a major commercial landlord, combining the properties we didn't enable a much
larger building perhaps, as much as 180,000 square feet, assuming no relief on height
restriction, there any suggestions on how we would approach the neighbor? Since there's

no clear point of entry? What's your experience with complex negotiations involving
JO

done in a uniform basis. When | say nobody gets in, nobody gets an edge except that the
values are different. And whoever puts the whole project together if that deals, you got to
say okay, I'll do this with a church. I'll give you X number of dollars as a ground rent rule
for a long long term lease. And then you go to the next one that's got the shopping area
and they do do do a similar, similar thing based on what they attribute the value to be.
And you tie them all together and the understanding is that you have an overall
agreement that if in fact, the thing bombs, that what they say bombs, all of the leases
bomb because the whole concept bombed, then the project goes, then everything goes
up for sale. And they split it up depending upon the value of their respective interests. Turn
it upside down. And I've seen it work. It's designed No, go me wrong, this is not easy. But
anytime you want to put pieces together for different owners with different ideas, and
especially who has it, not just they don't have the same land one’s got a building on it
one's got two stories was the church if they got different ideas of where they want to be,
and how they how they're going to get there. So it's not easy, not easy. But it can be done.

It can be done.

15:49

Out of the begging look at the equity as us being the developers on a leasehold. How's
that equity? That's fine. That's the you can develop on Liezel? Well, you got to know that
you have a long term lease. So you have a long term lease lease for 675 70. Whatever
years, we basically, for a fixed rate fixed at a fixed amount. That's not a problem. Bank
doesn't say there's fine. As far as they're concerned. They say here’s the here’s the value of
the property as a package. And here's the ground rent, which is being paid. I'll be to six
different parties who how many parties there are in different amounts. But it’s like it's
treated as if it's one lease. But it's not really one lease. It could be five leases or six leases,
but it’s treated as if it’s one. And they did works. Believe me It works very well. If you can

do it, but it's not easy. What where you got different interests. This works. Because you say
to the church, what are you looking for Detroit job, he said he's looking for income, | don't
think they want to sell, that would be my thought | could be wrong. So now you say say
you can provide for the church, okay, here's what it is, here’s what what we do, we bought,
we now build on this piece of property, and you get a certain amount of income to the
church for for the 75 years, or whatever the length of the lease is, based on the value of
what your position is, at the time, we get to go together and make this deal. So now you
have to figure out with each of the parties, what the value of what of their participation is
worth. It's not easy, because but because they're all different. But | think if you do it, if you
work to work as | was that you guys can get a feeling of where they where they are. And
you say Okay, good, you're able to your your interest will agree that your interest is worth
a million dollars, and we'll agree to pay you a ground rent starting off with the 7% going

up for the first 10 years, then it goes a buyer at that | knew that's what you what you got
JO

JO

JO

JO

05:52

That's? No, that's a good, good question. The answer is, what do you write to check if it
solves the problem, if the problem is going to reoccur, then you got to be careful about
writing a check, because it’s just going to be taking more and more money as more and
more problems come up. So what you have to, you have to look at and say what | write
this check what happens on my through, or was this just the next step going to the to
what I'm going to be. So writing the check is easy if you have the money, right? Whether
or not you should write it depends on what the outcome is going to be. And in this
instance, you don’t know what the outcome is going to be until such time as you get
through the nomination. If he gets if he gets the nomination, which | doubt, | don't think

he's going to get it.

06:40

One of the things that Donald did extraordinarily well in 2016, is that he's literally
dominated the news cycle for the entire election. And that publicity was 100%. Free,
whether it was good or bad publicity, he was still free. And like, he understand really

compared to what was projected on advertising.

06:59

No question, but what it was the beauty of it, if you call it beauty, and | don't know, | just
saw just to me, it's not beauty brand intelligence was that as people looked at it, and went
on, what he was doing was getting his name and getting his programs, whatever is out to
the world as here | am a friend and our Iman, I'm going to be your your friend, we're going
to do good things together, it’s going to be America first. It's not me as being the
president, it’s the fact that | will go to represent all of the people. And that’s when he

made the visits to all the heartlands in which basically won the election. So it's not it’s not
i'm not i'm buying the election. As such, the money there was put in a never, it never really
came to be an issue. We've never looked at an issue, of course, but it's not on anywhere
near the scale of what the Blumberg is talking about. But it’s interesting. Yes, yes, indeed.

Well, we got something like it in Canada,

08:01

we do not, we really don’t. Nothing at all. | mean, right now we have Justin Trudeau still in
power, he won a mgjority in the last election. He's still operating it pretty much as if it was

a majority majority government. And | think his coalition is still strong enough. Now. So
JO

JO

JO

indeed. Okay, I'll see you next week. Next month.

55:41

Server calendar. Okay. Just tell me what's going to be victim | put in my book. Okay.
Terrific. Thank you, George. Okay. Good. Afternoon. Good evening. Okay, thank you.

Goodbye. There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If

55:56

you've got a question for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys.

radio.com make sure you get your questions in at least two days

56:04

before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

JO

_)O

fatalities is very small compared to the total infection. So it's very bad. It’s not a it's not a
horrendous from a from that standpoint, that you know, people dying, but it is the effect

and what's going to do with rock the world is going to be huge.

01:56

Yeah, | mean, it’s still significant. It's not like the Spanish Flu of 1918. But we're still looking

at a death rate of close to 5%. It's still significant.

02:07

Yeah, that's true. That's true. Well, of course, the the the medical facilities now and the
antibiotics or what have you, or like different to what today and what they were then.
Yeah, what do you will see it has to play out? Yeah, | feel like the big problem, as far as |
can see is you're not going to get the straight the straight story from China. Yeah, that's

true. Like, they're gonna paint it any way they want to.

02:31

Well, let's, let's dive right in. Let's welcome everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind
with George. And of course, George is best known for his role within the Trump
Organization for close to 47 years as Donald's right hand man. He's been in business for
over 60 years, the author of two best selling books on real estate and negotiation, taught
at the law school at NYU for over 20 years. And married for 60 plus years. Here again,
George. Let's dive right in this one. This first question is from the news. And it has a
political slant to it. But | don't want to talk about the politics aspect of it. Okay, the
upcoming democratic race is shaping up to be kind of fascinating with the injection of
Mike Bloomberg. A lot of folks as a moderate and | think he did a pretty good job as
mayor of New York City. He was well respected. Yeah, yeah, he was. And he's a smart
businessman. But one of the things that I'm observing is at this stage, he soent more in

advertising than Donald speld spent in the entire 2016 election.

03:38

Absolutely. JOHN, he hasn't scratched the surface yet.

03:41
done, | put it together in two different instances. And it was, it was work, it does work. |
mean, | had one situation. And as a matter of fact, when I, when the concept first came
out, | was | was now putting five different owners together, they each owned a piece of
land adjacent to each other on the same block in New York. But one was 50 was 50 footer.
One was 75 footer. One was this one was closer to the corner, and they had different ideas
of the valuation. And when | said we're going to put the whole put the whole thing
together because we have somebody that it would take them and build a major office, a
major office building on the entire plot. As far as I'm concerned, it was one big, beautiful
plot. And each of the owners of the annual you got the different amount of different
amount of rent based on the on the what they anticipated was the value of their property
and security. They've got the possession, a percentage interest in this huge unit master
structure. And when it happened, when it kills them when they're caught when the thing
first came out. Interestingly enough, | went to one of the best things with lawyers with a
big name in New York. And I'm putting properties together and | walked into his lecture,
and he said he would never permit his client to enter into one of these deals, where at the
end of the lease, he didn't get back the property as in the form that he originally put it in.
So we get back vacant land, | walked out of the meeting, because that killed the whole
thing to kill the whole concept couldn't happen. If you if you put, if you put your land
together, and you let somebody build a multi site structure that's worth three or four or
500 million at the end of the lease, you're not going to get back your little piece of land,
you're going to have an interest in that building when it’s sold and store was part of it.
That's at a point and talk a different concept. But nevertheless, said, and | did put it
together took me on that agreement, the CO ownership agreement, but it took me one
month, one month to draft the agreement. that'll tell you how complex it was, or because
it had to be fair for everybody, and solve all of their problems. As to what happens if
there's a default? What happens to this? Did they do it? And if it did work, and they will,
they all went to it? What What do and they get different rates. You know, if one party
thought his land, his land was worth a million dollars, he got it. Nobody said, | got a piece
the same as you. But | think it's worth a million and a half. He got a new income based on
a million and a half. So they each had it was there was no master formula for how you're
going to value the property except the owner, the the company was going to build it said,
Yeah, | can live with these rents. And it looked with the overall package. So now | bought a
building and routers, $2 million, | can live with it. And | build this huge complex, this is
major office building on that on a piece of land, and each of the people get get their
interest, and they know that they have a share of above something that's really valuable.
And it will probabilities you'll never see. Because it’s got this magnificent structure on it.
And they're together for 75 years or whatever, whatever it is, they're going to live together.
Right?
JO

JO

JO

2702

Yeah. Okay. Why don't we not okay, this is a no, that's great. Yeah, yeah, absolutely.

27:08

A bit. But it does handle it does what you get, you get over the problem of the individual
valuations. And if you they're gonna know it, it’s not Jaco, keep a secret if you try to
develop a teacher properties together. So how much did you pay the church for this? How
much did you pay the parking lot? | don't think you've got what did you figure that for
value per square foot? Did you figure it on the basis of the FAA, all that good? How did you
arrive at the dollars, and everybody wants to get the best deal. And that's for you, instead
of having one general person you're dealing with, you have a whole different people with
a whole different window, all different ideas, and that you put them basically all together,
that you can do it based on F AR, if you want the what you can build on it. And say, okay,
that's, that's what I'll do. So we'll take into account the zoning or the size of the lot. And
we'll figure out the value based on that. And also that you can say, hey, if somebody else
gets a better deal, you can match the deal. So there's a certain uniformity so that you do
what you let you do tie one up, and you make good make the deal. And the next one goes
into the deal is better is better. For the second guy. Well, then the first guy gets the same
thing. The second guy gets chose you, you now say I'm doing what I'm doing this is | will be
it's got to be fair. So instead of having a bidding war if somebody else gets a better deal
than you have on that deal, that has a tremendous ring to it. Yeah, yeah. Okay, good.
Okay, that’s a good one. That's a good one. Yeah. Thank you, George. You're welcome.
What's the next step? Do you have a better connection? Hey, Victor, can you hear me
now? Yes, | can hear you. Okay. Great. Hi, George, how are you? I'm fine. What's up? So |
got sued last week for not one lawsuit, but for two separate lawsuits for the same
property manager. They've been having issues with the last six months. They're suing with

my

29:19

backup permit. You're saying that the same property is that property manager at that
point? He started two lawsuits against you, but it’s both him. Correct. Alright, but the two
separate lawsuits? What's what? Correct? What that let's say one at a time. What's the
first lawsuit? Well, blames y'all construction money. Correct? Because he owns a trucking
company. And he did renovation. Okay, yo, yo, yo, me in the Yomi. You shortchange me on
the construction company? What's the second lawsuit? The second lawsuit is the same

thing. But he's he's wanting the full amount of construction costs, and the only 50% of the
Ollee

PC+-+February+2020+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

ge Jhu, 9/91:28PM @ 56:09

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

property, build, zoning, lawsuit, question, lease, problem, people, money, permit, area, rent, deal,

based, put, separate, land, changing, density, easy

JO

JO

JO

00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross
mastermind. Good evening, George. Hey, I’m great. How are you? Good. Great. What's
up? Well, we got some great questions tonight. Yeah, a lot going on in the world, too.
Absolutely. Absolutely. Not traveling to China anytime soon. What a mess that is. Almost
three quarters of a billion people with movement restrictions. Yeah, yeah, it’s ridiculous.
Absolutely. What was when it got way out of bounds as they were not prepared for
anything like that? At this point? It's the good pain it is. It's a long wall and cut over a
million people in that area alone? Oh, absolutely. Yeah. And what they did on a cruise ship

was just outrageous, but they had no choice. So why didn't affect for a long time?

01:00

Absolutely. You know, a lot of people have been wondering if this economic expansion is
going to continue. And my perspective, if you look back at the SARS outbreak, or the
swine flu outbreak in 2009, each of those events had a significant impact on on the
economy. And | think we're in a downturn now, we haven't recognized that. But | think

we're in a downtrend now because of it.

01:24

Well, that could could could well be but, you know, we started to see you don't know, one

of the good thing is one of the good things about it is he there’s you know, the degree of
JO

JO

JO

JO

And you go into common vestibule to 12 goes off to the left and 214 goes off to the right
one's got two bathrooms when it got bigger. And the two different and they each have
separate keys to their doors because they have separate doors off the vestibule, which is
what you're talking about here. Right? Right. So that's fine. | don't see a problem. | don't
see a problem | questioned whether or not you even you need even more approval of the
zoning because you're not doing anything illegal.

39:46

What we're trying to basically go above the the permitted density like by doubling the
permitted density by using this approach.

39:54

What he said was it not permitted density what how many Craig say now you have to
bear Room sweet, what's the what's the density, you now make a two bedroom suite into
one into two one bedroom suite? In the two bedroom suite, you could have four people.
Now in the US you separate out into two into two, one bedroom, you got the same four
people? Correct? That'll See, it's, | would certainly check it out. Because when | was in
municipality, or what oh, or what it is, | would have somebody an architect or somebody
look into it. | do not see it as a major problem. And | don't think the municipality will,
cause you're not, you're not now building more rooms. You're not taking the rooms which
are built and subdividing them. Am | right? Yes, that's exactly right. Yeah. That's so that's
just fine. Didn't make you know, it didn't. It didn't make a proper bigger. That's correct. So |
don't see it as a bra. She's a great idea.

40:54

Would you go for the higher density? Would you go for the higher density right away? Or
would you do this in two steps, because if you aim for a higher density, they could say, No,
the least you get your hotel built.

41:05

But they're not going for the higher density where you told the density, you're now talking
about you You go, you're saying I'm going to build a three bedroom suite. Alright, so two
bedroom suite. That's what you're agreeing to build? Fine, you build a two bedroom suite.

Now the fact that you can turn turn the two bedroom suites into two one bedrooms didn't
JO

several opinions who don't speak with a single voice? That's a well, that’s a loaded

question being but that comes up very, very often.

10:52

What I've done in other situations where you had multiple interests of different owners
with different sized land, or different rights or a different one, with different ideas, and get
them all together, the key is, if you can, and it's not easy, is come up with some type of a
master plan, which is a project for the whole area. And so here's what's going to was going
to be so much shopping so many, but whatever is going to be taken over so all the sites
together and say here's what, what what's going to be on it, and you will have a piece of it
and be applied. And the way we do this is you have to figure out a way to give them each,
what they think their property is worth the values, and they're going to be different, that's
gonna be it's gonna be very difficult, because they have different ideas, different sides,
and some of them will make someone making a lot of money. So it'll be a lot of accurate
acreage, some will be little acreage, some I'll have access to the streets all this won't have
access, you got a church involved, which is a whole different ballgame. And it's hard to
get them all together. But nevertheless, if you can do what you wish you didn't do is, it's
possible to put them together. So the you know, create a lease situation, a ground lease
situation where you lease from each of them on some type of agreed rental on good what
it is, for a period of time, with the understanding that all of these owners will be part of a
package. And they all have a an interest in the overall project, whatever it may be. And
later on, if if it turns out that something has to be sold, the whole project is sold, and they
get to get the share. But depending on the value, as it was fixed in the title, fixing the value
is going to be probably, but nevertheless, it's got a certain ring to it. Because they all can
say well, but | didn't get underpaid for what it is. But | had to this property | | had to
construct | have buildings on it. And why is Big Mike site is bigger than your site and, and
therefore joy, it's always it's worth more or | think it's worth more that it's possible to get
them all together. It's not easy. Don't get me wrong. It's difficult, but | have seen it that it
worked great. It works great. And now the key is created. When this first came up
situation, | created a deal | drafted a co ownership agreement, co ownership agreement,
and it had never been done before. And the CO ownership agreement was with a number
of different land owners that happened to be side by side with some good somewhere
closer to a corner in some ad 50 by 50 foot frontage on my 25 foot frontage. And they all
got together. And they agreed that they would be part of this master project. And they
would get their rent based on their participation in this read the project. But as just
LendLease they don't have any, and never had any interest in the project itself in whether
it made money or didn't make money, they only got us a fixed rate of rate of return based
on the value of their land, or the value of what they're contributing to the project at a

fixed rate value could be the rate could be whatever 4% 5% 6% whatever it is, but it's
project was finished. No, but that's it. But why is the second lawsuit that's the same
lawsuit. It's the same lawsuit. So there's there's five different LLCs that | have that that
owe him anywhere from a small amount of money to what he thinks is a larger amount of
money, but five different properties on different prop five different companies. This one
lawsuit. It's one lawsuit with five defendants. Okay. Well, setting is is in the same the same
role in the same boat? The guy is the thesis on the title to money from five different from
five different sources provides in part you can, it's easy enough for that to go in and
consolidated into one lawsuit with five different defendants. They each have their
respective part and be represented by one law firm. That's easy. Oh, that's the key. That's
the key. So you're not paying five lawyers, you're paying one. As far as consolidating that,
is that something that? Would the court be able to make that decisions? consolidate it? So
it doesn't come after me? For other, you know, separate? Do it there, they'll be happy to do
it? Of course love it. Yeah. The reasons courts love consolidation is they hate multiple
lawsuits, anything they can do to reduce the number of lawsuits in their jurisdiction, they
love it. So now you're saying, hey, instead of three lawsuits, you got one, three, there, you
can go for it. So that’s from the perspective of him suing my companies, what about from
the separate matter about me going after him? To me, | said, that should be a separate
lawsuit that's got nothing to do with the first lawsuit. And | would go, | would go for
summary judgment. If he’s holding money that belongs to you, because he was a property
manager, does the laws against that, that’s pretty close to embezzlement cannot steal
from a principle. So that's a different suit, with a different result and a different lawsuit. |
don't care if the parties are involved and not the same. That one that did he's holding up
rents that belong to you. And you now go to the court say, Wait, if he collected rescues,
my agent, is a fiduciary capacity. And he's got to turn them over. And you can always go,
there's no judge, basically, this gonna say, No, you don't have to turn him over. And he can
come up with five different lawsuits. on other things which have nothing to do with the
fight with the reduce the party douchey airy responsibility he’s got as an agent collecting
rents. That's it, that’s an entirely different situate, | know the law is very much in your favor.
To quarterly, the agent cannot hold money from a principal, willy nilly. Right, okay. And
that's a separate lawsuit. And that's an easy one, | know, you'd almost want again, in
summary, judgment, summary judgment day, here it is, the man is my agent, he collected
rents, and he didn’t turn them over. And he didn't turn them over Depo. And that's, that's
almost that's pretty close to stealing. And that's the way it's treated by a lot of the courts
and rightly so. An agent cannot hold money to belong to a principal, he can have a claim,
but not withholding the money. And a separate, separate. So what he's got on the on the
claim that he’s got on a construction, whether you don't pay him everything that these are
entitled to, or wasn't finished. That's all that's a separate lawsuit, it's got nothing to do
with it. And that's going to be a lot more difficult because it’s more much more involved,
especially he didn't finish the work or whatever. But as far as the rents are concerned,

that's as easy when, as a separate lawsuit, you go right away for summary judgment, here,
JO

JO

JO

JO

based on the value of the property. But I'm not buying the property. I'm buying the I'm
agreeing to do to get a lease, and | give you give you income. So now you've got fixed
income, you're part of a major project, which you all probability is going to be worth more

than the individual pieces, because you got a uniform concept. So Georgia As a result,

18:32

the question about the the formula. So let's say part of the property's a parking lot, and
part of the property has a structure on it that presumably is worth more, are you saying
you would pay a different dollar per square foot on the ground lease? Depending on what

you negotiate what Yeah, but

18:50

But yeah, but it all boils down it all for the answer is yes. But it all boils down to what's the
value? What's the value of the participation that they're putting into it shot it right now. So
now saying, forget your thing that you got out of a parking lot as such, what's the what's
the value of that role? And put a number on it and say, okay, what's, what's the cap rate,
we'll put, we'll, we'll rent it out and give you X number of dollars on an annual annual
percentage on an annual basis. And you go to the next the next one. It says or here's what
I've got, I've got some two storey buildings on it until then, you have a word what is it
making income not making income, you have to figure out what the real value of it is. If it
were going to be sold, right? And then once you figure out what the value is going to sell
you now you throw it into the into the package and say, Okay, I’m going to give you that
value, but I'm going to give it to you in a long term lease. So I'll agree that your your with
your with the first few buildings you got is worth x and we'll give you give you they will
agree on that. And it's not difficult for you to agree on it or I'll be at the end numbers are

going to be all over the lot. Sure, sure.

20:03

So presumably, the land is not, obviously the land cannot be an equity contribution.

Because Because you don't own it. So

20:12

well, you don't want it to be an equity contribution, right? Because once you make it an

equity contribution, that it's the selling the selling point, the main sale point to all these
JO

JO

Die)

JO

Exactly. And it’s like he believes he can accelerate anything by simply writing a check. You
know, for example, he didn't get enough donor support. | think he needed 250,000 donors
to call. Last couple of debates. Yeah, he did a whole bunch of things to get it. Now. He

could he could have maybe a support is to donate $1 each and then donated those funds,

not his style. Oh, well, | know. | know exactly. That

04:07

grenade is still in donors. He's donors and submit anything, he’s gonna carry it all himself.
That's what he said. And that's what he wants to do. That's what's going to distinguish
him from the rest of the people. He won't take money from anybody else. So just pour his
money all over and make sure that the money goes to where it's going to help him get the
the notary notoriety that he wants in the out in front of the media. So it's all it's not buying

any buying basically the the election easy buying the nomination.

04:38

So | guess the question, | mean, there's a couple of questions here. The first is, you know,
he's he's saying he can't be bought, but he's willing to buy the nomination. You think that'll

backfire on him?

04:50

Yes, yes, | think | think it'll backfire on him. | think that what he is doing is not going to say
exactly Sit weld was the remote with a lot of people. It’s just too rash. You know, it’s a
combination. So I'm putting in some money, but I'm getting donations, | got building
grassroots from the general public, it seems to me that he would be better off. But this is
only my feeling. Having some type of more participation on a the average, the average
person or somebody above even the average person having more participation, this is like

It is him alone and a lot of money. And | think that's | don't think it's going to sit well.

05:34

It also raises an interesting question, when to use writing a check to accelerate
timeframes. And clearly, that's something that can work in certain settings. And the
question is, will it work in this setting? When is it appropriate simply to write a check to

solve a problem? versus do the heavy lifting?
JO

JO

it's not so much that I'm going to restrict the use of, or maybe I'll do it 30 days out of every
six months. But that's one one thing. | don't think that’s nearly as effective or desirable, as
you say, Hey, here’s what I'm going to look at this beautiful 10th, I'm going to put it up and
then I'll take it down. It'll be up for a day or if | have a long wedding, it'll be two days, and
then I'll take it down until | could never appeared. And that to me is something that you

could either you could sell, and they will they probably buy it.

SoZ

And presumably that need to be a new permit each time it's erected.

51:06

That's if you have a permit, do permit, you don't have to get the permission to do it. Right.
So as you say, here's your tell them, here’s what I'm going to do. And you give them all of
the specifications of what the tent is going to look like, how it's going to be built the lab
belt, how it's going to be installed, because it’s not really built, right? It's going to be what
what's going to be for the floor, is it a temporary floor or is it we're going to use the grass,
or whatever, but then you go, you show them exactly a diagram of what this thing is going
to look like. And that's what I'm going to build is going to have steel is going to have some
supports. But on a temporary basis, adhere to a floor over here to put up put, I'll put a
floor over the grass or and here's a dog, here's what's gonna look like and you give them a
picture. And the picture is gorgeous. And those are these every something that they would
really like, it's going to look like a park whatever they've got in mind. So it's probably
going to be a good Park, it's going to be, you're not going to be unhappy with it when it's
there. Because it looks nice, and is not going to be there that long. So you don't have to
worry about good storable another one of these, what it's one of these things where you
really need good presentation. When | say good presentation, you have to have a good
picture of exactly what the thing is going to look like. And you make it look as beautiful as
you can with a blue entranceway what have long temporary basis, not this. So here's what
it looks like when we're using it. And here's what it looks like when it's not there. It's gone
to we take it, we hide it, we put it somewhere else, we'll build a shed for it, which you won't
object to. And we'll be there and take it out when we need it. And it's doable, it’s there, I’ve
seen it, it's doable. It's not a quick call there. | mean, I've seen it we have for example, at
this at the club that | belong to, they have a tent that they put out over and over or lawn
area that wasn't there before and they use it when you need to instead of having 300
guests you have 500 guests and then they just it's just gone it's this they're just enough to
handle the the guests and then they take it down which is not difficult. It's It's It’s very

convenient. It works and | think that if you present it properly, then the municipality who is
JO

JO

JO

JO

ever for the government who's ever got the restrictions on land will basically object to it.
Because you donate it what it is is good for the community we can handle more people
it's going to be nice we're going to bring their you want to bring customer you want to
bring business to the surrounding area use a lot of good packages can sell was the way it

should be done.

bao]

You're talking about the the golf course it's just around the corner from your house. Is that
right? Yep. And that there's a lot of wetland like just behind your house. There's kind of
protected areas correct? Yep. So a lot of the same types of issues that we would be

dealing with

94:14

the fact you're not affected, you're not getting you're not the key is you're not putting
anything permanent down. That's going to affect the areas right right. Now you're putting
down temporary structure, you're not putting in pipes, you're not putting in toilets, you're
not putting in plumbing at this use building a facility which can have which can house
people. So you're gonna have tables and chairs and you're gonna have music or room in
the air in the air. And then you take it down. Yeah. It's if you make it look beautiful. | think
it does work. Okay, not that they're going to have as an eyesore. It was not going to be up
there that long. And it’s something that | think it's readily saleable. to diminish by quick
you're not changing the basic problems with the land. You're not building Doing
something that's going to affect the groundwater, you're not going to building something
that this is where it says we have to have to change. The Look, you're not affecting the
trees, you know, you're not changing what they the restrictions they put on it. You're not
violating those. And the reason you're not violating it is because you're dealing with

something that’s not permanent. It’s just temporary.

55:23

Okay, super. Okay. | think we're at our hour, so, yes. Have a great rest of your night,

George. Thank you, everyone. Okay.

Sa'50

Okay. This has been a good one had some good, good questions. Good problems. Yes,
jo

JO

JO

zoning permit for using those structures?

47:46

Ah, you're right, you're right. That’s your shredding a needle boy. That's a US ready to
needle because first of all, you got to get the the entity whatever it is the municipality or
the government to agree with temporary structures. Okay? Because they don't like. So on
the connection, you say, if what you're saying is, are you running a hotel, and you're using
these structures as ancillary to your hotel, on a short term basis, that could work. But they
have to be something that you could dismantle, you can't leave them up their correct
license, so you put them opposite attend to that and you have enough for affairs. So
you've been out increased the, your capacity for handling affairs, because you now you've
built an outside area, which is a tent, of sorts, right at this, that's, that's fine, | was thinking,
they're not going to object to that because it’s temporary, to say it’s going to be there for
a day and then | pick it down because it was less | have another affair, then I'll do it, leave
it leave it up. But it's temporary. Once you change it from being temporary to something
that's permanent or semi permanent, you're going to have the problem because now this
is going to interfere with their mind with the restrictions that they placed on the property.
So it's like you're building something, you don't have the right to build. And they're gonna
probably balk about that. But if you just think it just changing or increasing the use to
make the property more desirable. And be you get back to them and say, Good, here's
what's going to look like look at this beautiful tent. It’s that I'm going to put over this
you're going to like it. We have the ability, and you have the ability to handle affairs in the
community, which you didn't have before. So he says it’s a benefit to there. So now we can
handle part we can handle parties, we can handle things. So we bring in more revenue to
the community and I'm not damaging the property. And | basically say suggest changing

the the zoning or the restrictions that you already put on it.

49:54

If one were to do that for three months out of the year, is that still it? In your opinion in the

end,

50:02

yeah, but I'm not saying no, that's it, | don't think we're coming at it from from a wrong
viewpoint. It's not due for three months or a year is the idea, it's temporary, that I'll take it
down. And again, that's, that's not a big deal. He these, these kind of things can be taken

down very easily. And really rewrite you know, and reconstructed when you need them. So
