JO

JO

Die)

JO

wondering if you can share any any advice, just so that | don't fall into any type of traps,
or just anything, you know, anything that you'd recommend to a client when they're doing

a deposition? So

38:31

if you can share any pointers with that, yeah, no point. Is it good to get? The answer is |
can't, | can't because it’s, it's it depends on the factual pattern of what you're being
deposed for. In other words, the nature of the action is, and that really is something that
you have to be guided by your whoever's representing you. And they know that they know
the facts. They know the law survivable the surrounding the facts. And they can basically
prep you on on how to answer the deposition. Not that you're going to lie, but how not to
volunteer things that you don't have to do. But that's, that’s a technique but you can't talk
about it in the abstract. You could only talk about it in the actual situation. And I've not
done that obligation lawyer. So I'm, I'm not your guy. Okay. | appreciate y'all have a

conversation with them beforehand. I'm

39:21

just wondering as far as Yeah, | mean, that you | think you hit the nail on the head when
you said not not volunteering more information than needed. So maybe that's just

something No, that's it and just answer the question.

agiaZ

Is it going to be a specific questions, unless the deposition may be in writing, which | don't
know. But to answer the question, don't add. Don’t Don't embellish it. You don't have to
explain your answer. That way. If you can answer yes or no. Do we Yes or no? Keep it as
short as possible. Excellent. Okay. Thank you. That's my feeling, generally, the deposition
but be guided by your lawyer who's much more involved with litigation than | am. Versus
Okay, okay.

39:58

Next We've talked about the economic cycle before. And in fact, even a couple of months
ago, we talked about it. And | know from that conversation that you're bullish on the
economy, at the same time, we know that we're in the fourth quarter of this current

economic expansion. And there's a spectrum of opinions back on the investor summit at
JO

proximity of the Downey, Jr, the Jersey Shore has one major, that's the ocean of the
beach. That's what it is. So basically, you know, that's what is also in fact, the Jersey
Shore, the area that you have, is you still have gambling there, and Linux pennies, and
that's another but but you're not putting them up in the hotel. But you're right there. So
that's another advantage that you that you have. And that will always be there for the
foreseeable future. And it's it certainly is an attraction of sorts, to what you don't have
somewhere and say Key West or what have you. | think you've got the look looking, | think
that it makes it makes a lot of sense to continue with the good operators, and they know
what they know what they're doing, and the things is worked out, and they're willing to
continue it. In other words, are we going to maintain or build some type of reputation? Do
they operate the three resorts under one name? They do. Okay. So that's it. So they built a
name, they built a name, they built a brand and operate a brand, that’s great, and
continue to improve the brand. So people know what to do if they went there what they
can expect, because they get a certain quality of service. That's great. Certainly on the
right track, | think it's good, but it's vacation property is always a question, if in fact, the
economy goes good, which it has, and with what's going on with the present track. tax
structure is now different. In this | think that vacation properties and vacation properties
are good, good investments, because | can see people spending people who ordinarily
wouldn't go because they didn't have the money. Now they have some extra money and
do it. So now we say the average person no matter how it is gonna end up with like 2000
or $2,000. More in in pay than they had before available. What are they going to do with
the money? The answer is they're going to use it to have fun. Yeah, that's my feeling. good

feedback. Thank you. You're welcome. Perfect. That

19:40

was a great question, Dave. Actually, Dave, just for clarification for the some of the folks
on the phone. When you're talking about 1/3 1/3 1/3 you're talking about the sponsor
share the equity investors, of course would have their share, and what you're talking

about is just the sponsor share, correct? Yes. Yeah. Perfect. Okay, so this next question is
from Michael Rhymer and Michael had a prior commitment could not be on the call. So I'll
ask the question on his behalf. And he'll have the answer in the recording. So he has a
business where he has a key employee who is bright and ambitious, demonstrates a high
degree of initiative. And Michael wants to keep him meaningfully engaged in the business.
And he wants the compensation structure to reflect that. So George, what are your
thoughts on the approach, whether it's to use a bonus, maybe tied to performance, profit
sharing, or an equity position in the business? Now, he doesn't have the financial means to
contribute to the company, let's say if there was a capital call. So he's leaning away from

an equity position? What are your thoughts on the approach?
JO

JO

to this? So it's the since then | don’t | wouldn't worry about a lawsuit from them at all,
because it’s not as lawsuit, they're not going to win. Right. But | wouldn't do it. | don’t even
think they're going to raise it. So the other thing, if you went back to them, and you said,
Look, yeah, we have the absolute right to stay here under the under the rules. In Leon,
however, we want to be a nice neighbor, we want to make peace, we're using a little bit of
your property, we want to turn it out to a regional real estate real easemon. So that we
don't have to worry about it, you don't have to worry about it. That's the best approach.
But | wouldn't certainly, you know, throw a tremendous amount of money on the table
because their position is weak. Right? But to being a nice guy, and then you pay if it
comes up, but simply Hey, speak to your lawyer. Tell them speak to your attorney to the
lawyer and you'll know what rights you have. Yes, yeah, hello, but this is what there is with
adverse possession or prescriptive easement by prescription. | love it. Very good advice,
George. Thank you so much. Okay, so | but | wouldn't worry about a lawsuit from that
from them. And | certainly wouldn't bring | wouldn't bring a lawsuit on your behalf. Why do
you bring a lawsuit? To get it right? What you already have? Got it? You don't need a legal
you don't need that only only only in the event that they try to take it away, then | would
then | would do then that’s a different story until that relax. Okay. And if they do try to
take it away, what would be? What would be a remedy? Right away. They just wait, let's
wait, what did they do? If they do do try to take it away? Do that ask me the question on
the next telephone call. Okay. Okay. ain't gonna happen. Okay. All right. They may
threaten. But it's not the strategy. Not that. In other words, if they start a legal action,
that's a different story. But | don't see him starting, because you're not going to win it. So
it's more of a nuisance action than anything else. But you can worry about it if and when
it happens. Okay. Okay. Perfect.

37:36

All right. Next, we have a couple more questions. But | want to get to one of our member
questions. Sep. unfortunate. We didn't send this in in time separately on the line. You can

press star six to unmute.

37:50

Okay, can you hear me now? Yes. Hi. Thank you. | George, | had a question regarding an
active lawsuit that I'm involved with, you give some great advice during the real estate
guys a syndication event two months ago, this is a scenario where we're having to sue our
insurance company for some hail damage that was done to one of our partner buildings.
And I'm going to be going to deposition this May, and I've never done a deposition before.

We have a good attorney involved. They plan on selling 100% the truth, but | was
JO

JO

JO

to make the call that the person is definitely not gonna say no. And | was | seen see this
where you got a very successful business. If you give me give me 10 minute, give me a half
hour What have you | can show you how to make your businesses a lot better. When they
go to say no, right? Let's have a few drinks at this you do you're on the right track. Or |
could show that you there's an area that you didn't go into at this. Maybe you don't have
the up to date technology, maybe technology work it maybe at this point, you don’t have
the the PR so you've got enough areas or the beat to get to pique their imagine their
curiosity and give the answer is sure that nobody's going to say no, somebody's gonna say
I'm happy with this because they're there they wanted, obviously, they want to improve,
they have something to do. The reason it did there is not that they were happy with what
they're doing. It's just if we think they can be doing something better. So weeding out
winning got to get the right people that you want to talk to, that's what | would that's
what | would do. Very good. Any

28:32

thoughts in terms of how long to wait after the event before initiating

28:3/

might not be heavy? It depends on how what relationship you develop in the event. And in
the event that there was a good grade now is not the time for we so you now say we had
the event. So look, what I'm talking about. to improve your business's jury gender, we
really have to spend some time together. If you spend some time How about getting me?
Let's go out to lunch, we'll go out to dinner or what have you. And then | can give you a
broader view of what | think would make sense for you that if they say yeah, that's great,
good. Give me your email address. And so whatever it is, what dates are better for you
where you live, and then we'll set something up. Then once you've once you've done it
when you get off the ship and you're now on dry land at that point, you call him up at your
convenience. And say, you know, we discussed and I'd like to take it to the next step. Very
good. And when the question comes question comes up who you follow up, I'm going to
follow up with the best leads, get rid of the will get rid of the ones that are duds, when you
get nowhere or don't know indicate that you don't think they are ripe for what it is that
you're trying to accomplish. So just concentrate on the ones that you think might be
success might be appropriate for what it is you're trying to sell or what are you trying to

develop?

29:49
JO

Very good. Okay, next question. This is one from from our business. And this is a little bit of
a complex situation where we've been negotiating access to our property with a neighbor.
And there is a public right of way on the neighbor's property. So there is a road easement
and the easement is not in dispute. However, when the city built the current road bed,
they built it outside the right away, it actually encroaches on the neighbor's property. And
it's been the case like that for over 15 years. But only now they're objecting to the road,
even though it's been in existence for that whole time, because they don't want our project
to exist. So they're trying to obstruct our project. Now, the landowner, who, for our land,
donated a strip of land to the neighbor, to enable the construction of the road. So there
was this quid pro quo, I'll give you the land, you put a you build a road. Now that was
never captured properly in the deed. The deed says, if a road is built, we'll name it after
the landowner. But it doesn't, doesn't require the city to build the road. And the landowner
believes that, you know, there was because there was this prior verbal agreement, they are
in fact standing their ground that they in fact, have right to access their property in the
city must build it. Now, we don't want to go the route of litigation, because that means we
would lose control of the timeline of getting this resolved. And time would be good. Yeah,
it would be far more costly, you know, timewise, to have that. We also have an additional
trump card, if you will, that really amounts to a nuclear weapon. And we don't want to use
that because it would potentially give us tremendous negotiating leverage, but its use
would be disproportionate and it would be divisive. in the community. You know, you
know, we talk talking about taking down politicians and things like that, it gets really
messy. So we're thinking we should go the nice route and offer a pragmatic cash
settlement to compensate them for this, that small encroachment, it's probably the
quickest solution, even though it doesn't feel right. You know, it's, we're right, we already
have the right to use the road. What are your thoughts? You know, should we be

concerned about them launching a frivolous lawsuit against us to further delay? No. Okay,

32:01

well, let's go the answers. First of all, is an interesting situation legally, from a legal
standpoint, and | have been involved with it many times in different jurisdictions,
jurisdictions, but you have a right, a right of adverse possession. And this has been
recognized for years in the in law everywhere, and every state has it. Otherwise, if you are
inside somebody else's property, even though you have no right to be there, but you're on
somebody else's property. And you've either you've done something like you've fenced it
off, or you're there, or you're on Skype, and it's far your use of it is open. So they can see it.
certainly have a road that's the use. And it once you have it over a period of years, you've
got a good, right, you've got to you've got an easement by prescription. In other words,
you that you have the right to use it, because you've been using it all along. Where's the

property? It's in Louisiana, at least out of this this law, the statute is 10 years, if you had
jo

JO

JO

JO

exercise control?

08:07

Yes, they can. And so, you know, there's two folds to maintaining control of whether they
perform or not one is the ability to fire them as a property manager, but in order for us to
fire them, we also have to maintain control of the management company itself in which

their partners,

08:23

yeah, okay, you understand, but you try a try again, can to keep it separate. In other
words, what they have the role of the sponsor should not be the same as the role of
property managers, so that you've got a potential conflict. | don’t know why you have the
as a property manager, they even have a vote as a sponsor, they can have the votes, but
as a property manager, that should be assumed now as an independent third party
property manager, would they have a vote now? No. So why why they so the right to vote
or the right to control the partnership should not come through the property

management phase of it, it should come through the ownership the the ownership fees, or
the equity face. Right in the equity thing, but there's but and you may somehow at this be
Megan, | don't know, they may have given some weighted voting as a possibility. | don't
know what the arrangement is, but certainly, it shouldn't be that they can have control
because that that defeats the whole purpose. Purpose is the whole purpose is to have a
smooth functioning organization, smooth functioning partnership, and the equity portion
is only one part of it and the returns to those are one part of it, but the activities, the Latin,
the management or the opera. That's it, that's another part but that should be separate
and distinct. Okay. Okay,

09:39

thank you. Okay, thank you so much. No problem. Perfect. Next question is from Dave

Zook. Dave, are you on the line? | know you're on the line. Let me unmute you here.

09:49

Hey, I'm here. Hi, George. So a question. I'm getting ready to get into partnership with
some guys. They run a very successful jersey shore. resort property are actually a couple

of them. There are three resorts on the Jersey Shore are voted number one, two and three
JO

_)O

JO

JO

12:55

me tell you this, that having been in the partnership, going back to my law firm, we had
four automatic for partners, one that for managing partners, which | was one we were all
equal, and the only that save a lot of arguments, because the one that brought in the
business says, Well, | bring in more of the business, | already get more than 25%. And the
other way that | would always say what am i without you bring in a business, but I'm the
one that does the work | had to bring out to have more than 20. So and they among
themselves will say | work harder | work longer. I'm you can argue among among the
partners who does watch how much there is, but there was no dispute because there were
equal, no dispute divisions that final review. Otherwise, you'd be it could be doing it
forever. God if you if you talk to the wives of any of the partners, they will tell you their
husband is working harder than anybody else not to get more. So | was able to do it equal
equally. And that's the sound the argument later on as things develop at that point, you

can always make adjustments.

13:94

Yeah. Okay. By the way, that that was a very good question by Sunday and Aleck your
answer, | were in a situation like that where our agreement is written up so that we have to
buy out the the manager, who's also a partner in the deal if we fire him, so that was very

good. Yeah, well, |

14:13

just happen to at this point, no, that's that's wrong. You know, all right. So you don't use
your you know, the, you know, the old thing you don't throw the baby out with the
bathwater, is when you got the problem you solve If he doesn't, if somebody doesn't
perform your function, then they they you don't have to buy a mask. You shouldn't you

shouldn't get a get a bonus for for not performing.

14:33

Yeah. Make sense. Second part of my question on that same on that same deal with the
with the resort. | questioned him a long and hard because a lot of my deals that again
into there are some sort of recession proof or recession resistant aspect to them. And I'm
looking at this and I'm thinking okay, how does that fit into that into that recession? This is
like the vacation property. And their their argument is, and | know you've done a lot of

deals and you've been through ups and downs and everything in between. Their argument
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

06:31

Sonia, do you have the right to remove, you have the right to retain could remove, retain,
control, and hire a property manager. And the only thing I'm suggesting, if you can figure
it out is maybe to make an easier distort that you have some some guidelines under which
you're going to look at what they do and judge it. So make some criteria. | don't know
whether it's fine. The ability to have income or which which have over a brief, whatever
guidelines you think are important. What are they supposed to be doing as a property
manager that you think is important? The guidelines was, if they don't do that, that's the
end of it. But there's no discussion? In other words, if you wouldn't, if you interpret, if you
think it should be done, you do it, it's not subject to further further further review that they

have to defend it. Does he make a lot of money does the property manager?

07:18

Well, they're their partners. And we Yeah, | mean, they obviously we trust their ability to

have a successful operation.

07:27

Yeah, but yeah, that’s fine. But the there were also, private financial investment is the
sponsor, and they have also invested interest to make it work. That should be fine. They
felt guys, good. If it doesn't, you got the right to replace them. Okay. Thank you. You're

welcome.

07:43

Sonia. Are you having one class of shares or multiple class of shares?

07:48

We have shares for the equity investment, passive investors, and then we have shares for

the sponsors to profit share.

07:56

So two layers? And what's the voting structure of those shares? So for example, if if your

property manager is getting voting shares alongside does the sponsors, can they possibly
to everyone. The next call, | believe, let me just double check the date here. Is May the, |

guess, may the 18th, but it'll go up. It'll be going up by email.

O ;

A 48:09
Right. And okay, good question. Very good questions that I'm going to go over. | hope you
hope to learn something because | did too.

O ;

A 48:16

Thank you, Georgia. It's actually May the 16th is the next call. May the 16th and an email
me out to everyone. Okay. Thanks again, George. Okay, thanks for a great call. You're

welcome by now. Right bye for now,

© Robert 48:28

there’s another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

you do say no. Whereas when | say no, sometimes | feel conflicted. Talk to me a little bit

about your mindset and how it

01:15

well the mindset is that that's a really good question, certainly, and a very good situation.
It's easy to you got to learn to say no, and that's the end of it. Don't explain why you're
sending no why you're saying no, if you say no, no, that's it. There’s nothing further he
really did discuss. But once you start feeling guilty about saying no, the problem that you
have is if you explain it at that point, then they tried, some people are going to try to talk
it out, talk you out of it, if they don't like the fact that you said no. So once once you say
no, that's the end of it, you made the decision, you should make it fairly fairly quickly. And
that's it you live by, you don't have to defend a no, it's as simple as that. So you got to get
the habit of just, you know, saying no, and that’s that’s it. No feel that it's not easy. But if
you're truthful, then that's the end of it, that you just tell him this. But | hear what you're
saying. And I'm giving a careful consideration, but the answer is no. And this story, it
sounds so simple. It is simple. If you do it, exactly. What you what you feel is when you say
no, that point, the other person has the right to say that you've done something wrong. If
they haven't done something wrong, you're done, right? Because at this point, if you don't
if you tried to find out what happened, they're going to try to talk you into it and then
you're defensive, it's going to be worse than just saying no, yeah, that makes perfect
sense. You don't have to do so just you know, enter conversation, and they respect you for
it. So if you say you want me to go The truth is I've been listened to listen to what you had
to say or got involved with the ends. My answer is no, I'm not going to do it. Or | don't
think it's right. Whether that's the end of the end of it. Get used to it. It will save me a lot

of time and effort and certainly a lot of explanations. | love it. | love it. Yeah.

02:58

Okay, next next question is from Sony. Elise. Sony, are you on the phone? Yes. Go ahead.

We got we're looking for Sonia. Sonia. If you could unmute. press star six.

03:09

Hi, can you guys hear me now? Yes. Oh, okay. Great. Go ahead. Sorry about that. Okay.
Our question is, we are trying to do deal with partners who are experts T, who has
expertise in operational intensive investment, such as hotel and the success of the project
very much depends on their effort and their expertise. And we are trying to safeguard

against a potential event that the partners are non performing in a situation where we
JO

JO

_)O

20:36

Well, you got the equity position is not the foot this way is equity. It's not the Gabba share
of the business, but you don't have equity. And otherwise you don't, you're not going to
charge him for that, though, is that you're going to give basically, as a gift of sorts, you
can put a value on it, when it's done, depending on the value of the company and the
value stock, but you're not going to get cash for it, you're going to carry it, you may get a
note that he’s going to pay it back at some point in time, when when an if the thing when
it is the the business is sold, or the entity is sold, that they you didn't get it, we didn't get it
for free. But it's like you give him a stock position. But he hasn't paid for the stock position,
but it has a value. And at that point is what the stock was, what the value would be
exactly what he would pay in the event that he bought it. Now you're not buying it. So he
basically gives you a note, which is the same thing. But the note you can't cash cash for
no bother proposition. But that gives him the receivers if there was ultimately a sale and a
buyout that could be turned into cash. It's an equity position, which but he didn't pay for

it. And there are no capital calls as a result of it.

21:43

So it could be something like a restricted share, or perhaps even a stock option. Grant.

21:47

Correct. Correct. Absolutely. Okay. Any thoughts as to give my Jared a business, that's
way to go. That's better than profit sharing. Definitely shared a bit. What's that better
than profit sharing at that point, because the profit, the share the business covers a whole
gamut of different possibilities. The business could be doing good, but the profits are not
there. That doesn't mean the business is not good. You're just gonna have a future just
didn't happen for that year. And the same thing with bonuses, bonuses depend on what
you have in a given year, if the same thing of profit sharing Will you say but that the
problem you have when bonuses is once you stablished? Giving bonuses? stopping it is
difficult, right? They say well listen to what | got last year. And they will think | will have
more this year. And it's it becomes a problem becomes expected because they something
they expected the same way right. Now brought profit sharing is okay is great, too. But
then how do you determine profits? Is the question. Surely it is profit before expenses after
expenses after all salaries have been paid. So it’s not a bad idea to have profit sharing.
But you can also have on the profit sharing that that goes to pay for the capital the the
equity position he got, that makes perfect sense. That makes perfect sense. Now at that

point, now we've got cash. He's got cash, and he's got skin in the game.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

23:13

| love that answer. | know there's another a number of business owners on the call with

similar questions on their mind. So this is very timely, perfect.

23:20

Yeah. But it's certainly | would, | would highly recommend, if they have somebody who's
who's very good, good employee, make them part of the business. That's the key, right?
any event, he leaves he or she leaves, they're gone. They don't get it, this equity position is
gone. On the other hand, if they paid into it, because of the profit sharing share, and they
so the note now has been reduced, okay, they still have some system title to whatever
they paid into it, or in some way that we come back to them.

23:50

So on departure, they they lose the shares? Or would you have a vesting period, those

23:54

are the part if they haven't paid anything, they lose it. If they have paid with a good,
they're still entitled to what they paid in. But you don't have to buy that at that point upon
the departure at that point, when ultimately, when the company is sold, or they were
distributions, which are being made, they're entitled to get their share of the distribution,

depending upon how much equity Do you give them?

24:14

| see. All right, very good. Okay, next question involves managing new relationships and
ga number of us have spent the last 10 days or so on the investor summit at sea when 234
people on a big old cruise ship. And in that time period, over 100 were new attendees that
had not attended the summit before. So there's great opportunity to deepen existing
relationships, as well as meet dozens of new people. Now, when you go to an event,
whether it's, | don't know, a charity fundraiser or a conference, you've got the opportunity
to meet lots of new people. How do you approach that you try and meet just a few people.
Are there specific folks that you want to make a point of meeting? What's the follow up

after the event? You try and meet as many people as possible what's your strategy
Ollee

PC+-+April+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross
a Wed, 9/810:06AM @ 48:45

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, business, people, point, depreciation, property manager, buy, partners, property, problem,

event, equity, money, downturn, partnership, fact, road, situation, jersey shore, pay

SPEAKERS

Robert

© Robert 00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:05

JO

But Welcome everyone. This is our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross. George
worked, of course for Donald Trump for most of the last 40 years as executive vice
president of the Trump Organization. He's been in business for 60 years, taught at the law
school at NYU for over 20 years, the author of two best selling books, we are just so super
fortunate to have access to his wisdom, his perspective and his experience. So welcome to
the call. George. Thank you. Good to be here. George, first question is really about
managing priorities. And | know we've talked about this or something similar in the past, |
personally struggle with finding enough time to accomplish everything that | expected
myself, and | suspect there’s many people on the call that feel the same way. We've talked
in the past about delegation as being the secret to multiplying yourself. However, today,
I'd like to focus on maybe a slightly different aspect. And | know from the way you and |
have interacted, you know, often I'll make a request of you. And sometimes you say yes,
and sometimes you say no, but what I've observed, is that when you say no, it seems

effortless for you to say no. And | don’t perceive any apparent conflict within you, when
JO

JO

this, if you had a situation, you'd be using it for 10 years, you got the right to use it for
simple as that. Very interesting. Okay, so now is this is good. If you want to buy peace, you
can do it. You can say good luck, we have the right to do it. We have the right under the
we have the right, this has been there for now period of 50 years or what have you. When
is a road and it's been built? I'll be at somewhat on your property. Yep. Okay, we may give
you a reasonable price for the fact that we have we're using part of your property. So we
want to have a prepared an easement in perpetuity, perpetuity forever. So we've got an
easement and we give you a certain amount for it to have you agree to it. If you don't,
you're stuck with it anyway, but you won't get any money, which is where they are. That's

it. That's your bargaining position.

33:44

Do you think we would need to litigate to assert that right of adverse possession?

33:48

No, no, no, they got everything, right. They got to litigate to get you out? No, it’s not you
don't even use your real there. They have to say you have no right to be there, your
trespass or you have no right to be there and so forth, and you're on our property, and we
got the right to draw, and that they did that's not a situation they're gonna win. Because
when you go to court go to court, the judge gonna say, Well, hey, guys been here for more
than 15 years on the road? Why didn't you object earlier? What's the defense? What can
you say? | didn't know what I. So it's this this is this. It’s not a it's not a theory. It’s a concept
is very, very well rooted in law. And certainly, in every state, to cover a situation where
there has been some taking, not taking but the use of somebody's property, and where
somebody puts their fence in the wrong place, or what happened with this point and over
a period of time. Yeah, they own they encroached on somebody else's land. But now they
say it's inside the fence. they're entitled to it. They get it by didn't the years unless riona
objectives at an earlier point in time, and the statute is very clear. In other words, once
he's once you got to the 10 years Goodbye, that's it. You can’t say Well, how about if |
didn't Nine years, right? Any eight years, 12 years, then once in standing there. And there's
another situation, which is which is covered, which comes up? And that is the question,
there is such a thing as attacking your theory. And that's if not only you have used that
property or the road, but somebody else has used the road for a longer period of time or
an equal period of time, they're entitled that then that makes the case that much
stronger. So it’s not only were you involved, but you got somebody else involved. And
therefore you now use the the court is more predisposed to say, Well, | mean, they got five

people using the road or two people using the road, not just one. Why are you objecting
JO

JO

in the state of New Jersey. So there's those three potential. It's like a three way potential
partnership. The one guy is sort of semi active investor, and he's probably worth nine
figures. And he'll be the he'll be the guy that guarantees and brings the debt portion of the
of the money. Yeah, so he's the guy who's giving you the money, you're getting the
securing financing. Yeah. And then there's a second guy who's the very active business
partner, he’s the guy that you know, he’s on the ground, he’s making it happen. He’s, he’s
responsible for the success of the organization. For the most part, he’s probably worth
seven figures. And they're trying to bring me in because they went down the wall street
route to get the money. And they saw how they didn't feel like it was a fair deal. And they
like our syndication model. And they were actually the one guy was in and Dallas when
you were George. So he likes the he likes the syndication model, and he wants me to raise
the money. So with that being said, What do you think would be a fair partnership split?
Would it be 1/3 1/3 1/3? Would it be something else? What are your thoughts? Well, the

11:13

thought is, what you're doing is you it's 1/3 1/3 1/3 is nice, because it’s the easiest way to
do it, you know, it’s the most convenient whether or not all of the phases they all have the
interests of the same or equal is always something that you could find hard to do to agree
on, because they're not. But you have to figure out what the worth is to when they want to
get the secured financing. All we're doing in furnishing the secure. Does that get them 1/3
of the partnership? | don't know. You could say yes. and not the other one is more
important with refight the other one that does is active in the business. And is the driving
force if there's a timeshare, but that's really the management of the operational function.
No, that’s not the same as raising the money. And then you got you putting the whole
package together. Why? | would think that the best way of doing it easy is to make it 1/3
1/3. One for okay. Okay, maybe 1/3 1/3, let's have some, some measuring some criteria on
looking can basically change the percentages in the event that the partners don't
perform. If the guy doesn't raise the money at that point, what happens? He loses he gets
diluted, if he can't do what he's supposed to do. And the same thing is the one on the
operations can't is the operations are not working right. There has to be a dilution there to

not wipe out for the dilution.

12:39

So it makes sense. Yeah. But it certainly makes sense. Yeah. And now, though, is it up to
them to go 1/3 1/3 of uncertainty? And | think that makes sense. But yeah, | wasn't even

sure about secondary. It's not thinking straight. Let
JO

JO

JO

24:59

or strategy He basically would be first of all, if you got to listen to the attendees, which,
which I'm sure you'd have that would have would have had especially well, | knew, you
know, the, the event that put whoever is going to be there, at that point you got to do you
would know, there was a list of the subways got the they came to the event they signed
up, but I'm sure they pay more to attend your event. So | would give the attendees and if
you care for the attendees, they should fill out some type of a grid form information for
who they are, where they live, who they are, what their businesses, what they're looking to
get out of the event. So something that would give you an idea of how you would treat
them, or what you would be what they would expect and what you you would would be
willing dorg. And they anticipate you're going to give them this value to them in the in the

event. So | assume you get these? | mean, | don't know, just don't go

200

Yeah, | don't know that that information is broadly disseminated to all of the attendees

are expected the engine bay,

26:01

does it? No, no, I'm not saying to all of the attendees, I'm saying the information is
something you're looking at what you were what it wouldn't be. In other words, assuming
now that | wanted to network, right? Somebody that was there, fine. Now | have to get the
information. So | will pick out the ones What am | looking for by looking for somebody
that's got a lot of money, then that's part of what | would know, at this point, somebody
that's a part of a major organization, somebody that's got the technical expertise or part
of it, how long they've been in business where they live. So all of these things would be
important, then then you pick out which ones you want to focus on. And so you get to
them, so that you you got to you can't just do it with a broad net, you speak to everybody
you want to you want to get speaking and get involved networking with those that will be
most helpful to you in what it is you're trying to accomplish. That makes sense. And
typically when you cultivate them, yep. Yeah. And you called them and you go, you get a
meal, you already as a basis, because from the information which you've gotten of the
attendees, you cannot speak to that person directly. Hey, Joe Smith, | want to talk to you
because | noticed you have a business and you hire us 300 employees, and you were
located in New Jersey. And | have the following situation. Here’s what | do | make
investments in real estate, and | see is that would you be interested in that. So you now

can make a direct call because you have some information on that. That gave you the in
JO

JO

JO

is, we live or our resorts are within four hours of | forget, it was it was like 60%, or some,
some, some high percentage of the population, and a high percentage of the income or
wealth in the country have been so close to New York City and the East Coast and alll
that. And he said, Well, you know, when, when that happens, people will stay closer to
home, they won't go to Canada in Hawaii and some of the places I've come to dirty. Sure,

I'd be interested to hear what you what you would think you would Okay, that really?

15:42

That's a good, good question. | think the area is good and will always be good to Jersey
Shore has been going for a long period of time. However, | think more important is the
hotel facilities and how they're maintained. Are they up to date to the current basis? are
they putting money in for FF and E furniture, fixtures and equipment. And so it's really you
entice vacationers to go there, but | think is a selling job, which is involved in the selling
job is not location, because the location you have the selling job is the facility within the
location extension. So if that if if you have a if the facility is good, good reputation, you've
done your advertising and you get the promotions, then the answer is yes. | think they

work very well. If it is, if it's not, you got a problem. Also, at this, you know, you got a
problem between hotels and they b&b as people will now go where they have instead of a
hotel room with a bra go where it got Bed and Breakfast in the same general area, I'll still
be on the beach in Atlanta in the jersey, but nevertheless, | don't have the don't pay for the
hotel facility that can be overcome. Because if you have the host if the host hotel furnishes
good value for what it is they do, and people want to go there, though, is the idea. You
want to get the hotel that vacationer is willing to go to a hotel and pay for the benefits.
And for all the the facilities that are there, not someone who just needs a room a room in
the beach. So alongside that, so that's where the competition is, but assuming that

they've got it, and it says Runwell, it's a great Thursday, the Jersey Shore has always been

very strong.

17:22

It is a very well, very well run organization. And one thing that attracted me to them, so

yeah,

17:30

and | don't think | don't think that it’s a question that we have for hours at this point. So
Jersey City, there is enough population areas in Jersey Shore that are fine, you got New

York at that point, you got certainly Philadelphia, you got Baltimore, they're all in
JO

JO

have to protect our investors capital by basically letting go of that management party
and hiring somebody else. Now, if the if the our partners who are also the operators, our
sponsors in the field, are their joint venture partners, is it sufficient to have agreed to a
arrangement where we can replace their property management and duty alone? Or does

it? Is it necessary to also buy them out? Buy out?

04:15

No, no, | understand where you're coming from at this point, again, so the first part is yes,
you should have the right to buy them the right to replace them if they're not doing their
role as property manager, if you think somebody else could do it better than you hired the
somebody else. And that's the end of that. You don't have to buy him out the equity at this
point, whatever it is, they're not performing the function. The basic problem was created
the way you set it up. In other words, you have somebody who has the financial
investment, as as the sponsor, also performing some other type of a task. So you're
assuming that they have the expertise and they will do it, but if they don't, then you have
the right to replace them. And that's, that's it. There's the end of the story. There's nothing
Talk about you don't have to buy him out. | mean, you could eat on things. But | would say
| would put in some type of they're entitled to some type of criteria as to what you're
doing or what what the reasons what the cause was, the judge decided to replace them.
So they may be, is it? Is it a question of return a question of how their product perceived in
the in the marketplace. So they could maybe some guidelines as to so it's not totally
arbitrary. But once you once you have those guidelines, that's the end of the story. You
don't have to defend it. And the problem basically, is having someone who has a financial
interest also run the business. That's the problem separately. Okay. So you think it's
sufficient to be able to separate out the two interests? Absolutely. Not to that | wouldn't
wouldn't buy him out under any set of facts. Okay. The reason I, the reason | say there's a
reason for that, the reason is that in the event that they have a buyout provision, maybe
their performance is on the basis to get you to buy them out, you understand, they say, I'm
not happy with the whole arrangement. So I'll just, if | just run it down, so to a point where
they're not happy with it, they've got to buy me out, because they have no choice, usually
have a choice. At this point, the choice is merely to stop them from being the property
manager, and getting some independent person and or some group in there to replace
them. That's the that’s, that's what you should do. And that you don't have to do any more

than that by any means. And then just another investor. Perfect. Well, |

06:24

know a lot of that is a lot of difficult negotiation process. | appreciate that.
JO

JO

JO

JO

the decision. But the facts are certainly not there. This is just basically, speculation, or
theory, the same way that people will say, well, the stock market's got to go down.
Meanwhile, look, what's happened from the time that went down. | mean, what are we we
were 26 out, you know, it's just entirely different and keeps rising, because people exactly.
They basically say, | think, | think it's going to go it’s doing well, and it’s going to do better,
and others think it's not. But that's the nature of the business. You can't You can't plan on
something is too far in advance. Yes. When you have facts, and you see situations, you
can go on a trend, but | don't see the trend here. This the trend for going down. What are
they pointing to? | haven't seen this. Have you told me these? Anybody know what the
trend is?

44:21

No, they're losing theatres, aren't there? | mean, all the Yeah. All the people point to is, you
know, trade deficit, that’s unsustainable.

44:30

No, but the trade deficit that's unsustainable. You're not looking at what happens now.
How do you know the trade deficit is going to it's not going to be changed? Right. Looking
at it if in fact, you can say that you feel it, the Trump is going to solve would not help or is
going to ameliorate the Trump definitely the depth of the trade deficit. Well, certainly
that's going to be good than the economy's going to go up. And there's the signs of that. |
haven't seen a situation where it's not going to be done. There's a lot of talk at this. |
haven't seen it done, but who's to say To continue on, there's going to be the way it is.
Right feeling would be there's going to be some changes. And there won't be some
changes. So | don't think there's enough. We've seen a high side at all, but | certainly don't

see anything to see the low side. Okay.

45:14

| appreciate the perspective. Okay. Okay. Last question. And | think it can't mitigate their
concerns. No, | guess you can't.

45:23

No, you can't at this point. This is this is this is, this is, this is a gamble that you that have in
the stock market or in a business investment, the people that are in it, think of business is
JO

JO

_)O

going to go up. It's going to prove the people that are not in it think it's the worst way to
try to get out. But you have to have some facts on to which you're basing your decision,

not an emotional reaction. Okay, what's next?

45:45

Okay, next. So the latest tax code has a provision for bonus depreciation that allows for
up to 100% depreciation of certain asset classes in the year of acquisition. Yeah, and
that's great, but the income generated in subsequent years will not have any depreciation
to offset. And, you know, we can certainly see businesses becoming addicted to acquiring
new assets for the sole purpose of taking that depreciation in year one. And question is,
can that created an asset bubble where people are buying things not for the underlying

fundamentals, but solely for their depreciation value? What are your thoughts?

46:20

Yeah, no, no, that's that people are not buying it for just a depreciation value. The fact is,
you get the depreciation value it gives you is it a tax benefit? Yes. So now at that point,
you your your income structure of goods is going to be higher in the, in the first year or
two years that you're writing off all these, all the depreciation, and that's good. So it's at
the time that you need when you have a startup, because you basically put in all the items
that you're not depreciate, that would do the cash flow to put that in, and you got the
idea to write it off, that makes it makes it easier for you, you don't need cash flow, in order
to do it, you're going to take a take a tax benefit, the abbreviation writing off depreciation
is never the reason for creating additional value or asset value, it's just that makes it more
desirable to start something up, highly recommended. And it's a wonderful opportunity.
And they do this do the smart thing. And that you now have the right to write off
depreciation a business expense that you're putting into the company. And you can write
it off fairly quickly so that you don't have to take cash or and use it for that because
you've not got the benefit tax wise, not a problem. It helps the cash flow and makes the
business makes the investment much more solid. Because you've you've you've taken
money, you've written it off, but use that money or the whatever | need to depreciate to
increase the value of your product. Will you value company? Okay. Okay. Okay. Got it. No
problem. Well, |

47:49

see we're at the top of the hour here. Yeah. So as always, George, yes. Thank you for the

for the wisdom. And for those of you on the call, of course, there will be an email going out
JO

sea, we had a number of, you know, pretty smart people, economists and so on projecting,
at some point, a downturn, maybe second half of 19. Many of us have projects that will be
coming to completion in around that timeframe. So the question is, what are your

thoughts on any structural steps that we could take as developers as investors that might

mitigate investors concerns around a downturn? Are there any things that we can do

40:44

now? This is the backup, okay. What you have is, is this, this is a problem that occurs
anytime that anybody wants to go into a business wants to build a building, or wants to
start something. And the question is, what's the timeframe until it becomes solid? Or is
out? And maybe that timeframe can change? And maybe there'll be a downturn after
that, at this? You can't? If you listen to the pundits, and maybe they have every right to
say what they're saying with me feel that way about it? Well, you'll do nothing. There’s no
structure at this point to deal with. | don’t agree with the fact that what they're saying at
all. No, the fourth quarter in economic expansion. | don't think that the what's going on in
the United States, we've seen the effects, by any means that | think the tax cut, the day
especially for corporations is going to make a huge difference, you're going to have a lot
more people going to investing a lot more money that's going to be | don't see the
downturn, because | don't see any factors in the downturn, and they don't see any factors
in dancer that they can that they can point to it’s just just a well, it's been going on and
when the fourth quarter, so it'd be good to go down. Yeah, you say the same thing with
the stock market, it's going to go down and everybody's looking at same thing. But how
do you know when you don't understand in the stock market, when somebody's buying a
stock, somebody's selling it, the person that sells it doesn’t think it's going to go up and the
person buying it doesn't think it’s going to go down. But that's the risk that you take. And
in as far as the business is concerned, or | don't see, | don't | don't buy the point there is
that there's definitely going to be a downturn enough so that | would change my testing
philosophy, the magic. And if you if you feel is going to be a downturn, then deal with
shorter, shorter term projects, to deal with shorter term projects. You can you can
basically, you know, you can hedge your loss, sorta because you got to short term but, but
that doesn't mean you're right. You know, it could go on and depending upon the nature
of the project, you could be dead, it'll be dead wrong. It could be something you feel like
this, too, is the time to get out. But later on the cycle, basically, you know, you're wrong. So
| don’t | don't buy to buy the philosophy that yes, because it’s been given an upswing in
the fourth quarter of an upswing, that now we're gonna have a downswing. | don't buy it.
Eventually. Yes. But there have to be a lot of factors that go point with, and | can't |
haven't seen them, one of the factors. What are the factors pointing to a downturn, that
they are going to point to what that's going to say what? unemployment, employment,

salary income were? Right, right. If you had the factors that come up, then you can make
