Robert 50:47

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

what you've got to prove your credentials, that you have the expertise to build to be
involved with something that’s going to be commercially feasible, and you want the
investors to go with a lot going on with it. And it's if you don't have a track record, it’s a it's
a problem. Now, you may be building a track record, as she says, she doesn't have that he
said minimal success or some some success. But then on the minimal success, yes. build
that into something more than more than minimal. So the people who have invested up to
this now up to this point at that use them as your your calling cards, and then you get a
testimonial from them.

Russ 38:39

So how does how did George how, you know, that begs the age old question, you know,
how do you get experience if you can't get an opportunity or get a job, if you will? So how
does maybe bringing in other people bringing in more experienced people to partner with
you on early D Oscar?

38:56

Absolutely. Somebody you can go to their brokers and their brokers which are available to
you, too, they can raise venture capital, they've already got sources that have investors
that are looking for investments, right maybe so if you associate with them, and they get
a piece of the action, not velvet, for bringing in the capital. So you can pay somebody for
bringing in bringing in the investors. Now once you have the investors you can use use
them as the source for getting more investors. So if you are successful, say and raising $10
million dollars, it's a lot once once is easy. Now you want to go to say or | want to go 50
million. Yeah, if you got 10 you could go to 50 tried to try getting to 10 million with
100,000 different story. Right? what I'm saying?

Russ 39:42

Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. You have to you have to work your way up

39:47

the list. As far as personal is concerned. | found out very early on the lesson of what it is to
raise money and how difficult it is. And | had a good project The project | was buying, | was
doing mortgages, first mortgage, at 16% interest on a good piece of property guaranteed

it was guaranteed by two millionaires, right. 16% was a $35,000 mortgage, there was early

on. And when | met one of the millionaires says, George, I'm going to show you how
JO

JO

were just the sum at the all of the unit holders at this point have to support the operation
of the hotel. So they have all the fixed expenses that were involved to the hotel are passed
off to all the unit owners well fixed. So if the hotel is occupied at 100%, fine, if it’s not
occupied 100% no problem. The expenses are covered. And then when the units are in
fact rented out, the owner gets to the owner of that unit gets like 100 gets pretty close to
100% of the rent, or the the the charges to the daily charges for that particular unit. Now
that's fine. | didn’t when | say that, yeah, but it also is it works in the event that you're
going to have a good good degree of occupancy. And this one was in New York on you
know, near Columbus Circle. Yeah, you know, you're going to have some good occupancy,
because it’s that area. This is for the New York you can how you can people go around to
you know, your 365 days some of these they were also your major purchases to the units
happen to be foreign companies that wanted to have a place for the personnel to stay
when they were in New York. So rather than rent unit rented it read the hotel room
somewhere at this point said we're gonna buy one and keep it | know | have it and then
we get a certain amount of income because this is going to be used as a as a hotel. So
having said all that, at this What's your what's your suggesting, or what you're
undertaking is a major undertaking. It has a lot of problems that are involved in | wouldn't

put called rotor otter, but boy, it’s a it’s a, it’s a bit to do.

19:54

So it’s more so we're looking at getting more of a challenge as much as

19:59

we can. We'd go well, it wouldn't be, it wouldn't be, let's put this way, if you were selling the
condo units outright, that to me is not as much of a challenge. But on the other hand,
when you say you're going to turn it into a hotel, a condo hotel, that's a bigger job, a
bigger challenge. And therefore people will be more likely to buy units, because you have
them as a hotel. Now, also, the services or hotel are great other words, the things that
made the made the Trump Tower facility work, as you had a five star restaurant down
their way out of five star restaurants. So if somebody was wanted to cater a party in their
apartment, they could have a five star high chef catering, and it's really resonated with
the wealthy people. But you got to see that's what we're sort of in? Well, you got a
different area, this boy, this is his vacation area. It's beautiful. Yes. And it's a different look,
lam what | am saying is that if you get as much information as you can, and you think it
works, and you can get somebody to back it up, and you can put some numbers together
in a model, and you have reasonable expectancy, that the thing is going to always go to

work, and you put it together and you spent the time. God bless you, | hope it works. It’s a
place. Even though you'd already follow the plans. You say, Okay, good. Does that make
you happy, we won't have cars coming out on First Avenue, they'll come out under sites
record certain others other buildings have where they wanted to park areas, okay,
because the park area, and you know, you can you can be helpful, but you're not bound
by it. It's something you're doing because you want to see tensions with this municipality,
but not something that you legally would be quite required to do. Gotcha.

© Russ 36:23

JO

So basically go about your business, because you're already permitted smile, if they come

at you. Just be prepared to assert your rights.

36:31

And you may not mean you're dreaming something that may not happen. Exactly. When
it comes up. At that point, they may say, they'll probably say look, or look, hey, this was
this past history. We're coming in now on new construction. This is old construction very
long as as long as you're living and doing what was what was legal at the time you did it.
Fine. That's that's all the cats if they change the zoning, they change the ordinance to
what have you, not basically your problem, or like can say, they would like you to do it,

you're not obligated to do it. And if you had to fight, you can fight ruin. Great. Okay,

© Russ 37:06

JO

so the next question here is from Alina, and she couldn't get on the call. So I'm gonna ask
a question for her. She lives on the other side of the George Washington Bridge in New
Jersey, she has been developing relationships with potential sources of funding for Real
Estate projects. But she’s only had modest success so far raising funds. So she realizes
there could be a lot of reasons for that. But what she’s asking George's in your experience,
what are the characteristics of someone who's best in class at fundraising? What's your

mindset?

37-35

Well, mindset is, is what's your what's your track record? What's your What if we don't
have what have you? What you've raised these things? What should What can you point
to as being a successful mentor was in the fundraising area? So you say, Okay, | put
together to syndicate we went in, it's been two years, the results have turned out 15% a

year, what have you add here a list of my investors, you can call any one of them. And
JO

estate and for the business. But he is willing to take back some paper, the real estate's
being sold for 3.5 million, which comes out to about 291 a square foot. So this is premium
for the market. And he's asking 6 million for the business, which seems high. You know, |
believe the business should be you know, more value is around three times the multiple
net income or proximately. 4 million, he does seem pretty firm is price. He has turned
down other buyers because he felt they would not be a good fit for running the business.
But | believe that he trusts me to upgrade the business model. How do you suggest that

you negotiate with the seller? | don't want to pay too much.

28:55

Okay, well, how about the considering the following is that boy, that you're willing to
assuming the net the net income is at a certain level or reaches a certain certain level at
that point did you give you increase the amount that you're going to pay to the to the
seller, so you get some kind of bonus, if you're doing very well, if it works, the right, he's
fine. So he would have a participation in your growth. If the road gross is there. So he
would have to have faith that you're going to do what what you're coming up with
basically works, but he’s taken some of the risk off because if it doesn't work, you don't
have to you're not stuck with a higher with a higher valuation, which you can see what
you think is improper now, so it's like an incentive basis, which is not unusual in many
transactions, and certainly is not unusual in this type of a transaction and you're talking
about many times it was a to have a situation where the rents are based on a certain
basic number, but in the event that the sales from that unit become greater than the pay
anticipated, the or the landlord is entitled to get more money, not unusual what, why not
do it in this situation? Why nothing could work. And, you know, if he satisfied that you
know what you're doing and from sounds to me, like you're pretty well, along those lines,
that he’s gonna make a lot more money doing that, then they would be making it they
just increased the price now. Okay, so just make an offer contingent on future growth.
Okay? Yeah, not true. But you got to show him not contingent on this what you show him
that he’s gonna get more than he's anticipating. Okay. In other words, now you can come
up especially where you're saying that you're planning on increasing the the hours or you
go, you're going to now instead of going eliminating weekends, you're going to put ona
weekend, you can come up with a spreadsheet that shows how much money you're going
to make as a result of this extra hours that are involved. And it's going to be beautiful. And
they say fine. So he's going to get him a certain percentage of the of what you're great
and what you're grossing, or what you're netting as a result of those extra hours. That is
what you're going to give them an opportunity to look at, it's going to be a lot more than
what he’s talking about. Okay. In other words, did you understand so it looks good. But
yes, we can show hey, here's what you're getting. But now with this new situation, you

could make another another million dollars a year, first million million and a half. So the
JO

JO

pie in the sky might very well work. Okay. Sounds great. Thank you. Hey, Christine,

Russ 31:25

you had mentioned to me on this particular situation that other people were coming
along and part of their offer was making him stay on board. And he was resistant to that
right?

31:34

Yeah, he's he's not he hasn't been confident that just too many people can take over and

operate the business well, but he said he does have that confidence that | can do that.

31:44

That's a big joke. Yeah. If he has the confidence, that's fine. And that certainly fits in with
what | was suggesting, Christine, if he has the codons, and you're now expanding the
Hours of operation, the income should go up dramatically, because you're handling
weekends, and that so he has confidence in your ability, and you're saying fine, | mean, fit
is good. The increase as he get or the discrepancy between what you what he’s asking,
and what you think is worth, which is about 2 million, is that at that point could be covered
by the share of the profits. Okay. So | think it works.

Russ 32:16

Nice. All right. Thank you. Good. Thanks, Christine. All right. So next question is also from
this one's from Victor. And of course, Victor is not here. So I'll ask it on his behalf. He's got a
project in Louisiana, it's probably talked about on the calls before where all the permits
have been granted, the construction is more than 50% completed. So all permits have
been granted, construction is more than 50% completed, this city has had a municipal
election, and there was a new city council and a new set of bureaucrats and these new
bureaucrats are asking for new requirements to be met, that had previously been waived
on the project that’s already been permitted. those very same requirements were
examined during the original permitting process. So this ultimately has the power to block
the project by not granting the occupancy permit, they kind of have victory over a barrel
a little bit. And his question is, what tools does he have as a developer to protect himself
and his investors? Is he just roll over and cave? Or does he fight back? And if so how

aggressively?
JO

JO

it that's a risk that you run. And the longer the construction period. The bigger the

problem. Yeah, that's a that's a cost of doing business.

Russ 08:54

Yeah, yeah. Well, | mean, | can relate to it began coming out of the mortgage business and
you have fluctuating, you know, rates. And we would use rate locks and things to try to
control the volatility when you're in there trying to make sure somebody qualifies. But of

course, we only had to lock it in for 30 days, 60 days, or whatever it was.

09:11

It's true. | have to tell you at this point, | work on a building that | did, basically for Donald
Trump, and we were buying $2 million worth of steel from South America. And the guy

who is supplying it says this bid is good for 34 for two hours, for two hours, a $2 million bid.
He says I'll meet the price for two hours. But after that, we have to talk again, the price
was just going going wild. But imagine you've got to figure out to buy $2 million worth of
product and you got two hours to make up your mind. But this is what happens in certain
certain areas depending upon what's going on. If you have to take that into into account
when you have any product it’s part of your construction is going to cost you to do you
can program it. But unless you sign sign it up and get it delivered at this you haven't
gotten it. They say this is the price we'll give it to you but if you looked at all the contracts
for construction materials, they all have an out saying subject to market conditions or
what have you, you know, it's it’s not firm unless you make it firm and then you got to put

up your money and sign to sign it up. But, but that's the nature of the business. Well, that's

Russ 10:13

that's a great that's a great perspective because, you know, it's forgotten. You know, you
read about tariffs as being something relatively new at least on the national awareness
and this price volatility but your point after for decades is it's always been there. It’s

always been volatile. | remember

10:30

tariffs, tariffs, at that point. You had shortage of material. Yeah, exactly. Yes. not available.
| did a game on raw materials or if you happen to take somebody wanted was was
refinishing lumber and all of a sudden, the the main supplier it stopped but | business for

the manufacturer went out of business at that point where the price is going to change.
JO

up for success? The market doesn't have any major tier one brands either? Should we work
with a brand as a development partner? Or should we focus on finding the independent

partner who has a hotel development experience and then seek hotel franchise?

12:36

Well, | let's put it this way, | have to commend you first Disney for the fact that you're
you're planning this endeavor, with a minimal of experience and a minimal amount of
money. | mean, to me, talking about a condo hotel, that operation is a hazard unto itself,
where you don't have the expertise. So | have to commend you at least for saying, Yeah,
let's go into it. But | also have to have the reservations that you just under qualified and
you don't have the people or the partners that are qualified to do it. And usually that's
what your first line look like lining up. So you know, when it came to the Commodore
Hotel, that was his rebuilding it Donald was in the construction business, so we knew what
it was going to be to run a hotel to build a hotel. Yes. Now beyond that, he was ready to
build a hotel. And the main problem was that when we first went into the, into the project,
one of the banks that was loaning to planning on loaning the money said this came out to
Trump, what do you know about running a hotel, and he said nothing. And they said, Well,
if he can get a reputable hotel operator to interested, we'll talk again, figuring they never
hear from him. So now what you had to do was, was to get a reputable hotel operator,
which got hired, but you had to put all the pieces together to show them that it was
something that could make money. They were interested in building a hotel and having a
hotel in Manhattan at this, what why this site. So he had a show on how good the pieces
could be put together to buy the property or the railroad and everything else, not that
expertise that was supplied. He got experts that were involved and said, Yes, we can do it
for you to have the city involved. And they would give him certain benefits that he had
the federal the United States could say government that would give them rights of
eminent domain filled in some of the pieces, and he had the courage to do it. But would |
think what | suggest is that somebody do that now. No, it's just it’s just too complicated.
And then you're running your one for a condo hotel. Wow. | mean, you know, that's
another two, if you somebody who's running a hotel, good, that will say you can run a
hotel. So you could get a major route to get to get hired, or you can get the Hilton or
some of the others good. If you had that hotel, we would rent it out from you. But we
would run it on some type of a basis. We would run it on a basis then we get a we get a
certain fee to run it and you get all the income but who is what, and that's complicated.
Otherwise, unless you say hey here, we'll build To build a hotel or the hotel will be built and
we lease you the entire hotel. And we get certain rents from on an annual basis from the
operator of the hotel to do that, that is one way of doing it when you want to turn it into a
condo, that's a whole different ballgame. Because at a condo, you want to sell the units of

the hotel to individual investors. And become then why the units are not being used by the
JO

lumber has increased the market price for construction lumber by about 25%. In just the
last two months, obviously, that's had a huge impact on the cost of new construction. And
that's on top of nearly 20% increase in home construction costs over the last 24 months.
Now, the good news is market prices have arisen in several areas, and it's still made new
construction profitable. But the duties are being imposed also now on steel, which is
another key construction material. And so what Victor's struggling with is the difficulty in
planning projects that span multiple years when you're dealing with these moving targets
of costs. So his question for you, George, is as someone with development experience,
what advice would you have for someone who's undertaking projects in this kind of

environment? Well,

06:30

it's the same thing where you say this kind of an environment, it's always been that
environment. There are always been with forget terrorists, you have always been
situations involving construction materials, where they basically vary from month to
month, or times to time to time, depending upon local areas, depending on the local
areas, depending on what the supply. So if you if you have a shortage of lumber, you're
good, the price is going to go up. If you have an overabundance of lumber, the price may
go down. And the same thing with steel or Asia, these are just costs of construction. And
they figure it and they will always vary that it really has nothing to do. | mean, you can say
tariffs are going to do it. But overall, if you figure out the the cost of building a house, or
what or the construction of a building that you're building, and you take into account the
fact that it's the Yeah, well, this is the cost of lumber is going to be x and your cost of steel
is going to be why a piano rolls together, therefore the total cost of the house is going to
be a combination, as long as the market is there, and they were, there's this are people
that will buy, it’s lost, its lost in a transaction, it is the fact that the cost of the house may
cost to say, say it could cost me another $25,000 because of the increased cost. So | have
to raise raise the ultimate sale price by $25,000. If the economy is good, and people have
the money, yes, they will buy it. This happens with inflation every time raise, please go up.
People don't stop buying as long as if this was important. And if so, if the economy is
good, and people are making more money, the answer is yes, they will do it. The one of
the problems that you have in any major construction is the delay from the time you
conceive it, and you put your money in until the time you sell it or give money back in one
way or another. The longer the gap, the more risky it is you can go in you can start with a
project that’s going to take three years to complete. And at the time you start to market is
great. But three years later the market went down. No, that's a hazardous problem. But
what happens in three years, if the market stayed the same or went up, that's the risk of
building over over a long period of time. You can't be you can't avoid the risk, you have to

hold the thing who will be at least as good or better than they were when you first started
JO

strategies and tactics and also have the audio.

Russ 48:29

Nice, good. So we've got a couple more minutes you want to take on that last question,
George? Sure. Okay, so Mr. Victor didn't say who it was from. So I'm just going to go ahead
and ask and he wants to know thoughts on using expensive bridge financing. on a
temporary basis during constructions most conventional lenders will only land on Linda on
stabilized assets, that are actually producing revenue, with the highest rate for bridge
financing for the high higher rate, interest rate for refinancing makes it seem expensive,
because it is, but in the end are few alternatives either pay the expensive rate or don't do

the project. So let's take let's say you George,

49:06

first of all this is this is typical at that point, and you go through Yes, you're going to pay
more for a bridge loan bridge financing, that you're going to pay for Davis, then bigger
bridge financing. The point is furnishing The bridge is really taking the risk that you're
going to get to the final end, while your your project is in the process of being completed,
you will complete it and you can ultimately get it taken out at the end by the ultimate
mortgage. Now, this is typical and you're going to live with it. It's not bad living with.
However, one of the things that I've found it's very often ignored is to make a real effort in
shortening construction time, right. And one of the things that do do that Donald is on a
rig we did on a regular basis. When we have a constant we resume a bonus if they
brought it in early. So it's not going to be penalized if you don't finish it by a certain date.
But if you finish it earlier than the certain date, you're going to end up making more
money. Wow, yeah, all of a sudden at this point, they work their tails off to get the bonus
and do what was what was happening, your construction time was being condensed
because all you had these contractors that were interested in getting it done earlier, when
they got it earlier, your bridge loan does allow for that law. And as a result, you can save a
lot of money because you're not paying that exorbitant interest rate for a longer period of
time, as well as you've also got contractors that work their tails off to do business for you

because you pay them more than they would ordinarily get.

Russ 50:33
That is great, | think. And they're on a high note. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
Okay, good. I'm looking forward to the next one. Yep. It's gonna be great. Thanks. You're

welcome. Bye now. Bye. Bye.
JO

JO

estate if they originate less than 500 mortgages year. So I'm wondering what your
perspective is on the impact of that on real estate investors, smaller developers getting
these smaller lenders, or community lenders kind of back in the game again, pros and

cons, you think it’s going to make the space? So

01:30

| think | think is great. The reason was that there was so much regulation that went on as a
result of the Dodd Frank that smaller banks, community banks to what have you just
couldn't, the paperwork was impossible to keep up with just wasn’t worth doing the loans,
right was very low was what happened, they just stayed out of the market, which is
ridiculous, because the market was available to larger lenders. But for smaller lenders,
that wasn't there, because it wasn't worthwhile for them to do it. Now with eliminating
repealing some of the the old paperwork to do with Dodd Frank, it has made it available
for these smaller lenders to now compete in local areas. And that's great for a local
builder, because you can get a local bank in the area that's familiar with the area and
they can make decisions when you visit banks wouldn't make because they they're usually
too general. So it’s a great source. And | think that's something that anyone that's
involved in real estate, should take advantage of you to advise you to go to various banks
and say, Are you interested in making these kinds of loans where they just linearize itself?

And | think it's a whole new source? Which is a long time coming?

Russ 02:36

Yeah, | think so. | mean, I'm excited about it. | have a background in the mortgage
business. And, you know, | think a lot of the problems that were caused in the lending
industry happened from people who really weren't underwriting the loans very well, they
really didn’t care, they were gonna package them up, flip them to Wall Street, right?
That's right. That’s the answer was the answer. You're

02:55

absolutely right. The big problem came up with, with the mortgages, which were
underwater, if you are qualified underwater was the banks that were writing it, we're not
writing it to keep the mortgage, they were writing it to the bank and sell it to somebody
else. So they were intermediate only registered as getting fees. And that had a horrendous
impact on me, because all of a sudden, somebody who ended up with the mortgage didn't
write the mortgage, nor as | was relying upon information | had from somebody that was
an intermediary. And that was horrendous, because the intermediate didn’t care what the
good idea. It's just got a lot of a lot of problems involved because of the nature of what
you're planning on doing and building and the area it's in. And I'm not demeaning bands,
by any means. No, you know what you want to take for? You want to take a look and say
at this point now, well, you say fine, that you're taking this area in the United States. Hey,
you got to Aspen, Colorado, right, and you've got a whole you got he tell you, right, and a
whole bunch of here where the numbers are fantastic. Now, but those are mostly
individual units. | don’t know anyone at that point is going to do it on the basis to build a
multiple to build a big, big building on a condo as you know, kinda hotel basis, but it's
because that's the nature of the area to vacation area. It's not one there, but God bless
you. Good luck.

© Russ 22:00

Thanks, George. Good job. Good job, Matthew. Thank you, George. So let's get this next
question in because we're got a lot of questions here. It's gonna be great. This next
question comes from Christine in Las Vegas. Christine, are you on the line? Christine?
Okay. I'm gonna come back to that one. If she shows up, Gretchen, let me know. Okay.

Next question is it comes from sia, see, are you on the line?

22:25

JO

All right, either. She's on the line, a question that | got. And I've got to catch up. It’s a good
question. Yeah. Okay. COVID concept maybe | see at this point, because it's not the kind
of the question that you raised is not not tied to a particular product or particular

building. It's fine to the fact that says what is an employee's situation, what happens as an
employer if all of a sudden you got a disgruntled employee, who is about to badmouth you
either and deep in the press? or what have you and affect your reputation? That's
basically the nature of the question. Yeah, I'm not limited to a particular area, particular
person. Yeah.

© Russ 23:03

So I'll go ahead and get the question out on the table, George, so that everybody can
hear it admitted? She says, As an employer, how do | protect myself against disgruntled
employees? Why like go, particularly against online slander? I've got an employee's as a
top performer, but it's violating ethics. She's decided, | think it's a she, I've decided to
terminate employment as a result, he's threatened to have customers write bad reviews
online. Their business depends heavily on social proof and online reputation reviews are

vital to their standing in the market. What can they do to protect themselves?
JO

JO

23:34

Well, that’s it. How do you protect yourself against blackmail? The next question? Yeah,
yeah, well, isn't that the question? How do you protect yourself against blackmail, that
somebody now is going to defame your product at this point, for the purpose of getting
money? that the answer is very simple at this point to go with it, it's you can't eliminate it,
an unhappy employee. But when you fire someone at this, you want to do it on some type
of a basis, where it's not such a horrendous situation that they go away that med. So you
give them some kind of severance pay, or whatever it is, and you get a from them in
agreement, that not they will not discuss anything that was available, or they learned in
the operation in their position in your organization. Right. So it's a nondisclosure
agreement. And you say, Fine, here it is, I'm going to give you a severance pay or give me
two to one salary, whatever it is, and go Go away, but go away happy. And unfortunately,
what it is, is blackmail. Yeah, and you can't avoid those who can't avoid if somebody
wants to slander. And they have so many areas, we have Instagram and all of the others.
And all of the various media outlets which were available, and once a day, you can't get it
off. Because, you know, as they say, write a review and somebody writes a review so that
they're going to revive to the customer. Yes, | use this person's product. It was terrible, or | |
tried to do business with them and | couldn't get answers. whatever it is they fled, and

you'd never get it off.

Russ 24:58
Does it make sense? George does makes sense to, you know, engage them in that forum.

Usually places like that give you the opportunity to put in some time to

25:06

engage you. But that doesn't eliminate it. Right? It's a question who wants to believe? In
other words, once it what what beliefs? Are you? Yeah, you can defend it and say no, it
wasn't true or anything else. But nevertheless, the fact that it was out there somebody
slandered your your reputation wrongfully. And you can defend it and say that no, this
wasn't it, and you can put everything you want. But the fact that the allegation was there
is what counts, if you look to as an analogy, which is not true, but look at all of the sexual
abuse claims. They're all alleged, but look at the effect, right? It's not a question of

whether it happens, it's a question of they are alleged to have happened, and everybody
believes him. And that creates the problem on the reputation. So what | hear you saying is
better just to try to end the relationship on a high note. And that's right. When you before
you fire the person or what it is, they look, I'm not happy with, with the job that you're
doing your pay getting too much, you're not happy with it, I'm not happy with it at this less
Ollee

PC+-+June+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

a Wed, 9/8 10:10AM @ 51:03

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

hotel, project, business, question, mortgage, building, area, construction, george, problem, point,

investors, units, banks, money, people, pay, permits, condo, victor

SPEAKERS

Russ, Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

© Russ 00:05

Well welcome everybody. We're here for the George Ross mastermind call. And this is
Russell gray standing in for Victor Menashe who's enjoying a well deserved vacation. And
so I'm super excited to be here with you today. And George is here on the line with us. For
those of you who may not know, George Ross is a very accomplished probably legendary
real estate attorney in the city of New York. He worked with Donald Trump back when
Donald Trump was mister real estate mogul and not Mr. President. And they did a lot of
deals together. And even before that he had George had done many, many deals
independent of his relationship with Mr. Trump. So he’s got a ton of experience, real world
experience. He's got a great practical, no nonsense approach. You're gonna love hearing
from George, we've got a number of people on the line who are going to be asking
questions. So it's my job to kick the thing off. And so George, I'd like to start out with a
comment that actually came from me, because | noticed that President Trump now
President Trump rolled back a portion of the Dodd Frank act, and with the intention to

making it easier for smaller community regional banks to get back in the game of real
JO

JO

oe a

Okay, but it's a good question. | mean, they change your municipality rules are happened
on a regular basis, but certainly it’s not unheard of. However, once he’s got the original
permits at that building, and he starts and you get into construction, you're already
grandfathered in. They if they try to change the rules to get a facilitative certificate of
occupancy at that, that’s the can do that. The courts will permit him to do that. So they
can claim this is what it is, is nice if they hold it up into delay, but they're not ultimately
going to be successful, you're gonna win gotcha with it, is you're basically coming up with
a problem or seeing a problem, which pret which doesn't presently exist, but you think it
does exist because of the change in the in the administration? And not necessarily
However, once if you try to change what you're doing to comply with the new regulations,
you're open, you're opening a whole Pandora's box because they will say, Well, okay, you
got to do this, you got to do that. You got to do this, which is based on their new

philosophy or the new administration, but wasn't there when you originally apply for it?

Russ 34:26
So that'd be like you're basically implying that you're accepting the new situation by your

actions.

S431

It no you wouldn't, you wouldn't be able to change it. Gotcha. Okay, no, if you don't
change it is it’s fine. But if you do change it, that's it. Then then once they say okay, if you
if you said that you go along with this was a problem with situation a which we like, how
about B, C, and D, and this is this situation came up on a major project, simply the Trump
World Tower which is in Manhattan. At this, he had the right to build a 90 storey building.
And he did no zoning, no variance or anything. Later on, he said that they tried to stop it
and say Nope, can't do it because it's going to trigger the red dwarf other areas. It says
the zoning wasn't submitted wasn't, wasn't to cover this type of situation. And they tried to
stop it. And Donald, we were already in construction. And we finally went on and the
judge says, Look, he didn't do anything wrong. He building in accordance what a law was
at the time he started the construction, the fact that you change, it doesn’t make a
difference, as far as this particular building is concerned. And he said, if you want to stop,
you can stop the next building. But you can stop this one because it’s already
grandfathered in. That's a situation which you have here. Once you're grandfathered, they
can threaten what's not going to win may be costly, but certain things you can do, you
may be helpful. And certainly certainly in the as far as the Trump Tower is concerned, the

city wanted swapping cement, which is put away in the park put your parking in a different
JO

JO

JO

JO

Russ 10:51

Yeah, Hurricane Andrew blew up blew a budget for me on a project | was doing in the early

90s. Because you couldn't be the price of lumber doubled.

10:59

Yeah. And it doubled almost overnight. Yep. | remember because it happened. It's supply
and demand. That's all if the supply goes down and demand goes up to go, your price is
going to go up. Why not? Because it becomes competitive. Somebody else will say I'll pay
$25 for this is too much. I'll pay $35 you got to get it for and all of a sudden you have a
bidding war for material prices go on our site. Got it. Okay, very good.

Russ 11:21

The next question here is from Matthew. Matthew, are you on the line? Yes, Ross. I'm here.
Perfect. All right. Well, go ahead and ask your question to Mr. Ross.

11:30

George, how are you? I'm fine. Matthew, what's up? We got a two part question here.
Patrick Tran and myself. we're undertaking an ambitious project of a condo hotel just

outside of Banff, Alberta. It's an area that gets approximately 6.5 million visitors a year.

11:43

I'm familiar with the area. It's a great area that's been there. | haven't yet but everyone
keeps telling me | gotta go. If you haven't been there, and you're looking to exist, looking
at the numbers go over the numbers are going over the numbers, you better be real estate

projects and not numbers, their places.

11:58

Well, pack Patrick has been there and Victor has been there. They both told me it's good
to go. So okay, I'm trusting them. That's good. Demand is really strong for a new country.
New Construction scarce land is hard to get. We're about to get a key 5.5 acre property
under contract, but eluxury 300 room condo hotel will need a strong partner to complete
the project. We don't have the capital nor the development experience, because it sounds

a little bit like Commodore Hotel, how would you suggest we enlist the right people to set
JO

JO

part, but let's park on a friendly basis. So we're going to give you give you some some 22
weeks by two months pay whatever it is, or some benefits at this worthy understanding is
that you will in writing psychology will not do our ad you will not under any circumstances,
disclose anything that was involved with your position in this organization, in with the
media, in writing or in the media or anything else. That's great. Very good. If you do if you
do at that point, then you're subject to penalties.

Russ 26:33

Would that be like a liquidated damages clause in

26:36

the contract? Yeah, liquidated liquidated damage. This is just so yes. It's, it's paying off the
touch money. Gotcha. Okay. We don't like to save as much money, but it’s happens. Yeah.
It happened in a happened in one of my radio stations where there was a woman there
and | knew she was totally incompetent did a terrible job. | know when we fully fired her.
We're going to end up with a with a claim a discrimination claim. And sure enough, we
filed a discrimination that she couldn't operate because the it was a male dominated
working area. And she filed a non Fun Fair Employment practice. Well, she had lawyers,
everything else who, finally we settled it, but he couldn't stop. It just wasn't worth with the

women. You lose it.

Russ 27:22

Now the one of the main costs of doing business. You've got it on the nose. Yep. Okay, let's
jump back up to Christina's question or Christine's question then one more chance.
Christina on the line. Yes. Can you hear me? Yeah, perfect. Yeah. Hi, Christine. Go ahead
and ask George. Okay. Hi,

27:38

George, I'm in negotiation to Hi, I'm in negotiations to acquire a senior de Activity Center
in Las Vegas. Great. It's located Yeah, it's located are dominantly, a Chinese part of the
city and largely services senior citizens and the Chinese community. The business model is
either we picked up or families drop off their parents just for the day for elder care
activities and socialization. So right now the business generates 1.3 million in net income
per year, and upgrades five days, five days per week. So we can grow the revenue by

adding weekend services. The seller is asking what | believe to be a premium for the real
JO

JO

individual investors. They are become rooms or units that can be used for hotel. That's a
whole different situation. And boy, it's complex. Because now you know if | how you
running? What kind of a hotel? Is it going to be five stars, four stars, three stars? Is it going
to have full service it was who's going to run it. It's a whole different ballgame. And it's a
very complicated, so | know what | am. What | appreciate is the enthusiasm which is going

on a project which you really don't know very little about in and you told us?

16:00

You know, we understand it's zone four, we talked to this account as a municipality, the
council, they're on board recognize some of the needs, they really want it. Of course, we |

you know, | tell

16:13

you this, what were what do you what, what are you what are you using as a as your
counterpart that makes you think that this is going to work that you're going to be able to
sell these units at a price? Are there any other units in the area, which are in fact being
sold? There's 1818 units that are for sale? 18 units that are for sale out of how many 700? or
so? So somebody else has built them? Yes, that's a very common thing in the tourist area,
in Canada, in Canada, in certain parts of Canada, do you have any? Do you have any, if
you have the numbers and show that it works, then you may be able to convince an
investor, that that's the right place to go. As I'm not I'm not putting cold water on your
project, | think it has the ability to be a great capability of being a great project. | think
Banff is wonderful, it's a great tourist area. And | think that the idea of a condo hotel
properly run could work very well, although you are restricted because of the weather is
going to be a problem and usage of hotel rooms at a point in time. It's not like you're
going to use it every day of the year, you got to think whether he's going to have
something to do with it. So it's, it's | appreciate what you're trying to accomplish. But it's
something that | would look carefully into. And if you can get the information from the
other hotel operators and somebody that can give you the the facts and the figures of
what you can expect in in leasing in selling units on a per square foot basis, what the units
ask the cost to build. And additionally, what you can probably get if you what you could
get if you rented it out, how many rentals do you have on for what period of time and over
what period of time See, | did this one for the the the Trump International Hotel in New
York and then a condo. All right now, the units, the lower units statistically are readily
become readily when people buy them, and people buy them. And when they're not there,
they don't use them to part of the hotel, and they get whatever rent they get goes to the
owner of the unit. But the all of the the the the hotel as well, the unit holders, and they
JO

value of the property was or what the mortgage was. And as a result, at that point, you
ended up with all these horrendous mortgages, which would work with later on created
chaos. So that was, that was terrible. And that was a really major problem. And a lot of
smaller banks got involved with it, but not to a great degree, right, because they will cut
off by the effect of Dodd Frank, which required a certain tremendous amount of
information, which the smaller banks today, | don’t do that that might be just worth it. The
advantage | get for being able to write these loans is not worth the paperwork and
showing to the government or convincing the government | know what I'm doing. So |
think this is a major major help in permitting small investors to get loans from community
banks or smaller banks that are familiar with an area and they can get an attractive rate.
And the smaller banks basically now can compete in mortgage lending, where the
weather is good feet to be weighed. And they don't have to worry as much about the

government oversight.

Russ 04:30
Yeah. So it ends up being good for the banks, it ends up being good for their depositors

and obviously ends up being good for the real estate investors who are going to be able to
tap in to that source of funds. I've got one quick little follow up. Right. Got one quick
follow up on that. And that is the you know, you read Donald's book about the art of the
comeback in the relationship he had with bankers. You know, again, when | was in the
mortgage business, | was underwriting to strict guidelines. Either you fit in the box or you
didn't Is it fair to say that this new rollback is going To make it easier for lending to be a

little bit more relationship based even at a smaller level should be relationship basis,

05:06

you're getting right on the head, it will make it easier. And that’s what it should be. They
should be some type of relationship between the borrower and the lender, where they
trust each other. And they can do it. And if there's a, they can do make a loan. And if there
is a problem, they can figure out how to solve the problem. And it's not just cut and dried

on on monetary aspects. Absolutely. That's great. | can as it used to be.

Russ 05:30

Well, good. | was excited when | saw it. And I'm glad to see or hear that you see it the
same way? Absolutely. All right. So the next question here is from Victor, who's currently in
Europe, and he can't be on the call, as we've already talked about. So | get to ask the

question, it has to do with the tariffs. So recently imposed, tariffs on Canadian softwood
JO

JO

Russ 42:59

important to getting those early projects, right. | mean, when you're just starting out, you
know, some some of these projects, people | see people try to start out with early or high
risk. And if they mess up, that's That's it? That's a reputation.

43:11

No question, no question. And what's what very often is lost in a transaction is the
personal relationship that must be maintained. So it's built this when | say must be
maintained, you have to speak to these investors and say, Look, you did this before, it's
fine. I'm not calling you a problem. Do you have more money? Do you want to invest? Are
you satisfied? What do you want to get out of the project? What what's your What do you
want to do investor? that personal touch is very important, because now you're
establishing a personal relationship, which is above and beyond the business relationship.
So he said, | have another project which coming up, but it’s probably more, | don't know
how much you want invest, but I'm looking for shares or $50,000 for a piece of the
project? Is that something that you would be interested in or not? Or more or less or not?
So that you now basically touch your potential your investor to find out what it is that
they are looking for or willing to do? Has there been a change in their financial position?
Do they got more money? They got less money would they like out of the money? The
project they're already in? It’s the personal touch, which can be very, very successful and
should certainly now you're not talking to was investigated talking them as a friend. It's a
different ballgame. And that person that you're talking to on a friendly basis, your best
salesman for next for another room that's absolutely dealing with dealing with with a job.
| love him. At that point. He's interested in what my what | do, what my lifestyle is. And
everybody's total understanding and very happy. | get the checks. That's the way you build
your reputation. Yeah, that's great. The

Russ 44:53

mindset is People to People business. It's fabulous. Exactly right. Okay, we got one more
question. few more minutes. So let's get this one out. This one’s from Vince Vince, are you
on the line? Yep, I'm on the line. All right, you're up. Ask George.

45:06

Thanks, Russell. Hey, George, how you doing, sir? I'm doing fine. Right on, hey, I'm looking
to grow as a business person. In your experience. What were the things that helped you

grow the most? Is it taken a class, working with a mentor or diving into the deep end on
JO

an ambitious project? | certainly have some blind spots that are holding me back. How do

| open the moose?

A5:27

Welcome to the club. Thank you. Welcome to the club. | understand that when | first
started in Well, first of all, as far as the being a lawyer at that point, yes, a real estate
lawyer, | had a mentor. And that was somebody that was, who was a really good real
estate lawyer. And he taught me everything basically, that he knew what he wanted me
doing, how to handle clients, then later on when | went and now | went all the sudden was
thrown into the business world. And | was representing two millionaires on the project. And
| had never represented a, there was never done a major project. Never. So now, | haven't
convinced myself that yet, why not? Why isn't a new office building, very similar as buying
an office building very similar to buying a one family house, dealing with a project that's
15 billion instead of 50,000. And | learned, | said, these multimillionaires and | was
representing are in the real estate business. And they are very successful. And if | want to
be in the real estate business, | have to find out what it is that they look for, and what it is
they do. So | will learn from watching them. And all of a sudden, | found out that the
business of real estate or investing is totally different from the law of real estate, because
you have to think as a businessman, most lawyers don't seek a businessman. So | started
to learn what it is they were looking for was a return what was the security what it was,
and why they would be interested in certain buildings, not in other buildings. So that was
my learning curve. What if | had a mentor? | would have loved it, but | didn't. So | had to
learn it the hard way. And | did. So what I'm saying is you want to improve it go get into
an environment where you can learn something. So you got somebody that you that you
look up to or knows what they're doing. And and you would emulate what it is they do if
they raised money, how do they raise money? What do they do to get them to raise
money? If they do projects? How do they do projects, if they negotiate how to negotiate
this is how you learn by getting involved with people that have the experience that you're
looking to fulfill. Awesome. Thank you so much for your wisdom. Yeah, classes, classes
don't necessarily work. But they somewhere to one thing | would tell you to do read my
books. There you go, Well, I'm a big fan, | would say no, thank you got it. They want to say
read my books, not procedures with it. The thing is, | wrote two books on negotiation. And
negotiation to me is very important, because you're always negotiating and you want to
improve your, your performance. If you learn how to negotiate or you easy aspects of
negotiation you can do, you can do better. So I'm saying not because it’s because the
books that | wrote but | think that you find to be very helpful in guiding you over some
spots that may be very difficult than dealing with people that you're you feel capable of
working in near in a class. You can learn it, | read your but always, always something to be

learned from everybody have me ever read your book Trump style negotiation, powerful
JO

difficult it is to raise money. | couldn't believe it. Until | went and | had some dusters that
were they all get in touch with us happily. And then when the time came for them to write
out a check, they did, the hand got nervous, they couldn't run out to check. And it turned
out that | couldn't raise the $35,000 from outside investors, except | had my mother in law
who was willing to give me 5000, which was fine now. Sure, 30,000, | went to the bank,
and | said here is | have a house, | have a good job, we're going to go to family law. And |
want 30,000. And I'll give you security, a mortgage on a good piece of property for
$35,000 at 16% interest for one year. And then I'll never forget, the bank officer said to
me, | don't like to make loans on mortgages. And | said, | didn’t ask you for business
advice. Am | not worth $30,000 on oakworth? And he said no, shocked me to my | was
absolutely devastated. But then | got another bank and they said, Oh, yeah, give us the
mortgage at that point. Where would you signing it, we'll do it. And | did it. And then |
started when | started this point making the payments, especially my mother, she started
telling all her friends, they wanted to invest that she’s getting 16% on on a piece of
property on a mortgage, from a sudden like clockwork, the next investment that | had,
everybody wanted to get into everybody, and | wouldn't let them in. Because if you if you
want to raise, you want to get money from somebody, if you don't take it, they'll give you
all you want. That's classic. So now | had it. So the next next mortgage was in it was
$60,000. And | had a doctor who said I'll take the whole thing | said, No, you won't. You
can't take 60,000 I'll give you 30. And | want the whole thing no 15 if you want to take it
otherwise, you're getting 50. Later on with the same doctor at that point, he invested a

couple 100,000 with me, every time | put a put a put a project together he was there.

Russ 42:14

You know, that's such good advice. It's so practical. That's that’s the way you do it you got

to perform, and then you get a reputation

42:20

here. Yeah. And from that, yeah, from that, from the more from the making the mortgage
investors, the mortgage loans at this are getting mine and my investors in the mortgage
loans when | decided that | was going to form a radio company to do but to buy radio
stations and Bill and the mortgage people were in the mortgages, they were happy to
invest because well, okay, he knows nothing about radio, but he knows everything about
investment, or they came along with the with the money. And they were willing to invest in
a brand new project because they trusted the person who was involved, not necessarily
the product that was involved, but the person who was who was involved in the in

fostering the project, and kind of
