JO

JO

JO

43:56

my husband and | wouldn't you say potentially not potentially they will be. Alright, don't
question there will be opportunities coming up. That's not potentially though, that's for
sure. Because the panic does that. Fair enough. But the question is what you're going to
do with the opportunity or whether or not you will take advantage of as a different

ballgame. But there will be opportunities.

44:16

Yeah, so my question is not if | want to take advantage of them, but if I'll be able to
because my husband and | have already invested all of our cash in, in assets already. So
we're looking at trying to strategize how we can get access to more cash either start, you
know, contacting investors and what messaging to put out there and how we can position

ourselves to

44:43

it takes it takes somebody investors or what have you, or they want to go in with a very
strong stomach that say, Okay, I'm ready to do it. But let’s go back. Let's take the stock
market as example. You know, every time there's something the stock market comes with
a price Somebody is buying and somebody is selling, the person who's buying figures is
going to go up, and the person who's selling figures is going to go down. One of them is
right or wrong, but this is the gamble that they take. And if in fact, you'd have a group of
individuals or is that has some money, that they can invest in a project on a, on a basis,
that would be fine. There's a lot of projects around, it'd be wonderful to invest, because
you will have sellers who are panicking. They're in the selling point. | don't try when it
comes to panicking. Real Estate at that point doesn't is not to me there's something to
panic well, though, the the cost of operating and so of course, there are differences that
you can buy. There's certain businesses, if you're buying a strip strip mall, | wouldn't touch
a strip mall, to buying residential in a good area, | would think that’s pretty safe. But you
don't know. But if you have giffy, if you can put together yourself or group of courage that
has the courage to go look for good or good investments, put up less cash, with with good
paper for the rest of us say I'm not going to pay it to you now. But I'll give you 10% down
and then other 10% 10 year, whatever it is, you can make some fantastic deals because
there they were panicked sellers. Gotcha. So just start having some conversations about
Yeah, | had | had said | think | had said this is this the over to some of the people in Victor
will may or may not remembered. | wish that | was 20 years younger. When Katrina

happened and wiped out the city of New Orleans. Absolutely. | wish | was 20 | would have
JO

JO

JO

to somebody will buy it or trade it. So | don’t know that necessarily answer. But a lot of
buying gold and buying silver or this. Sure. That's a natural, but is that really solid, the the

| don't think if you put it in the same category, real estate is there. It's not going anywhere,
it will always have value, how much value depends on the circumstances of the time, but it
will always have value. As long as we have people they're going to need a place to live a
place to work a place to eat all these things that are there. And there’s no question about
it. And that can be only done by real estate. And this is a this is not over something that
we're talking about from one year, this is over a period of time. So if you figure out what to
what you paid for something 1020 1015 years ago, and figure out what it's worth today, it's
a tremendous discrepancy, and how much growth there has been part of its inflation. But
part of it will also be just as just the economy and the people necessity will be opposite,
there'll be downs. But | don't think anything over a period. So calamitous, this is an
unforeseen calamity, which nobody had figured, and they didn't figure it, we can't expect

them to figure it. But that as the world will survive.

22:06

No question. Why don't we go to some of the questions from the folks on the call? Go

ahead. Let's, let's bring up Stephanie, from San Francisco. Stephanie, are you there?

22:20

Yes, I'm here. Thank you so much. Okay, thank you, George. What are specific steps, the
steps that we can take to prepare ourselves? If we currently own commercial properties?

For example, should we start talking to banks? No, or any other ideas?

22:37

No, wait, banks will talk to you. This is not this. This is not this, because they don't know
what to do either. The banks, if the banks if imagine, for example, it Come on, that you
had that a bank has so many millions of dollars in mortgages, mortgages on houses, and
all the people stopped paying. Now, what does the bank do? Well, of course, they're going
to lose, they're not going to be solvent. Berea time this is money that they've dissipated
coming in, and they don't have. So what are you doing? The banks don't know what to do.
That's what they'll come basically to the government and say, Hey, here’s my problem.
And | don't know what the end result is. But | do feel that | feel very strongly about it, that
ultimately, the government will come in and step in and help the banks. If they have need,
they'll pump a tremendous amount of money. And we're talking about millions trillions in if

necessary, we only know it’s necessary once the, the effect has has become critical. So is
JO

around will back. Right? That's it. You're absolutely right. What that will do to it, what do |
need to reserve for, because this is a different different situation, you've got to meet your
expenses, meet your needs, understanding that you're going to have a tremendous
amount of loans or things which are not going to be repaid. Or you're going to have to
make loans that are not going to be immediately repaid, but shaky loan you wouldn't
ordinarily made, but you had to make it because of the circumstances involved. And the
government says yeah, go do it. But they will not let the banks fail. And the reason for
that is this is not made, the banks didn't do anything wrong. And that's the the theme
throughout the entire situation. Whoever is involved in now gets hurt by this by the the
virus and the effect of the virus. It was not something they did. It was not a voluntary
situation or a mistake. It wasn't a bad investment. It wasn't somebody | thought it was
going to be better. It wasn't the shorter it's, it’s, you know, it's just an act of quality act of
God or what have you. But it’s beyond anybody's control, totally retreated entirely
differently. Do you? Do you see this as inflationary? Oh, | mean, inflationary? | don't know
the answer to inflation. The end? It's, it’s it's hard to say. To a certain extent, yes.
depending upon where you're at it when | say inflationary, how about the fact with the the
antiseptic foods or hand lotion or the sanitizers and the charging $138 for a bottle that
said the jordanelle price $3 for that inflation? Absolutely. Top going to be going up? | don't
know if this is there going to be situations where people will take advantage or they'll
want to be to take advantage of this particular situation. But it’s all a question of supply
and demand. And what is it? What am | selling for? | mean, | go recall not to a while back,
where | had a big client who is building a property and was buying steel. And the steel was
coming from, | think it was Brazil, or maybe Argentina. And he got a bid a bid for $2
million worth of steel. This is what it would cost how much per truck per ton. And the guy
that got the company that gave it said this bit. This bit is good for 20 minutes. But they
were under 300%. inflation. So who knows. But it was there's the the bright side is it will be
it's unknown now but it will be clarified in the not too distant future. One way or the other
one clarify that is going to be a lot longer and a lot worse, or clarified that we got some
kind of handle on it. And we think it's we can figure out when it's going to end up to be
better or something that at least becomes static. And we can act accordingly. Why don't
we Why don't we go to Shana Shen, are you on the line? | am Yes. Can you hear me?

Okay. Doc can be fine. Great. So we've alluded to a

43:48

little bit already in the conversation, the fact that there's going to be potentially some

opportunities coming up. And
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

How's you know the bill, people coming out of the woodwork making claims of injury?

There's got to be some checks and balances. It's

33:40

not everyone what what does what does your crystal ball say?

33:44

| think they're gonna do what's expected what's easy to tap, easy to check, you know, the

democrats right

33:49

now that that's your crystal ball. That this whether you're right or wrong, we don't know.
But we will know in the not too distant future. Yeah, we just don't know that. But you gotta
be you have to look at it from a terrible position, or you look at it from this position that
will be resolved one way or another, and it will go gonna come out and solve the problem
or at least live with the problem. And that's the way | look at it. | don't see the error see
this as a major, major long term contrasts get faster V, which cannot be resolved by a
sound mind and resolution. And | think we'll have both. Okay, looking at, we're looking at
what's quarters in the United States. We got people talking to each other and republicans
and democrats that they hated each other's guts. And yet they're now working together
beautifully. Because you recognize it’s a common it's a common problem, not not a
political problem. That's true.

34:49

That's true. Why don't we go to Alina, Alina, are you on the line? You can press star six to
unmute. Hi, can you hear Me?

35:00

Yes, yeah. Can you finally know? Excellent. Hi, George. Hi, Victor. How are you? So my
question is a little bit open ended, or maybe a lot open ended. But | wanted to hear your
take George on what do you think is going to happen with commercial real estate?
Considering the current circumstances? commercial real estate, | say it was think over a

period of time, | don't know what it is. When you say commercial real estate, it basically |
JO

JO

think it will, it will, it will be a great time to buy there'll be a holding period when you may
not have a tremendous amount of income or an uptick. But | think basically, it's it's gonna
work are you going to be businesses of course, and mortgage rates are not are low, right?
Good Time to get a mortgage. And banks have money coming out the wazoo. They've
had it for a long time, and they had no place to put it because nobody wanted it. Now,
mortgage rates will probably increase because | see demand is going to increase. But as |
said earlier, in it been a phone call. If you have mortgages on any property, refinance, and
borrow as much as you can, for as long as you can, as long as you have a right to prepay.
And my feeling would be, that'd be you that money is good money and will stay there.
And that could give you the opportunity to cover whatever your losses are going to be in
a short period of time, or whatever the period of time is going to be. That'd be cool as a
result of the virus, or over a longer period of time. Because there's no there’s no shortage
of cash. This is not a shortage, okay? It's not a question. It's not like, Oh, we had the
mortgage backed securities, which when we bombed, where they overlapped in the banks
at this point, now, oh, somebody ended up with a lot with a whole bunch of mortgage
backed paper, that wasn't good. When | said wasn't good, it was was overvalued. As a
result, whoever had that paper is going to get you got crushed. | thought this is not that

situation, by any means.

7:03

What we are seeing, we are seeing some pressure points in the market right now. And in
fact, the Federal Reserve statement on Sunday, that they were going to buy $200 billion
worth of mortgage backed securities, correct, | think was in direct response to the fact
that mortgage rates even though the Fed rate dropped, mortgage rates over the past

couple of weeks have actually gone up the lowest rate.

37:25

That's, that's because demand has gone up. That's why now people just don't want to
refinance their mortgages. That's the that's the key is what is that when the government's
got to back it up? They can't let them they can't basically, let’s leave the financial system,
the banks fail, or have liquidity problems. Can't do that. Right. So that's what | say. So
what you have the government will buy the book, buy the Prop, buy the paper, and the
paper is not bad paper? by any means. It's just that the bank does that. If the banks in the
lending and what their, what their cost of operation is, if they can't meet their expenses,
they have to raise money, where do you raise money? We raise money by selling assets,
the assets? Have we got mortgage backed securities, that's an asset. So that's a good way

to raise money. And so but you need somebody to buy it, the answer is yes. Here's the
JO

or anything. The the It seems that the that the incidents incidence of the virus. Most
people | think it’s like they have something like 80% have very minor effects. You know,
let's say they're out there, but they're not anything serious, overly serious, not that they
have to be hospitalized or require ventilators or special equipment. That's the guy but until
you get a handle on how many cases are out there and have tested anybody that it comes
up with symptoms. Yeah, that you can do you don't know how, how big it is, how critical it
is, and what has to be done. So when you figure when you figure this and the, the health
authorities, and I'll prepare for the worst, which is what they're doing, will it happen? |
don't know, you know, it's up to you, | don’t know the answer to it. But from everything
that I've seen or heard, that | would put stock in, it's a, it’s not as virulent as, as many other
diseases which you have, so that you have people that will get it get sick, and they will
recover, the bulk of will recover, it will be a few that don't recover and have symptoms, it’s
got to go to hospital have that there will be a certain percentage, because of weakened
immune system or whatever will will, will die. And it's terrible. But that’s, that’s what it is.
But it’s just so indefinite at this time that it's hard to plan or do anything until the smoke
clears. Will it clear? Absolutely. | have no doubt it will clear now. Because the You don't
know how many people have it. How many people don't have bad, it's going to be one of

our it's going to affect you taking all these

11:17

procedures, basically, quarantine and what then that you're doing that with a view
towards keeping it from spreading without any control, until you get some kind of an idea
how many people out there. Now that has a rendus effect on business. There’s no such
thing as business as usual. And everything that people have to know fall to the road are
not going to get paid. There are businesses which can who can afford to pay them to pay
their people, their business who is closed, which may or may not reopen at a later point,
you don't know that what the effect is going to be. And therefore you can't say how long is
it going to last? Is it going to last? What's it going to be? | can only tell you one thing for
the as far as the United States is concerned, whatever amount of money is required to get
this country and the people back on their feet will be soent? How will it be paid repaid? |
don't know. But that's not the issue, it will be soent. Otherwise, you're going to have to
satisfy the system. There’s no other impetus to do individual individuals into the small
businesses, big businesses, the airline business will have to have some type of help. And
you also have the group whose business which was every business that was affected, and
there may many of them almost all of the work, the effect will have to be mitigated
somehow, by something the government does, and they'll do it. | don't think there's any
question about that. But we say what are they going to do? How are they going to do it? |
don't know. Except | there's no doubt in my mind that it will be done. So we finally when

we see the end of this, and we'll see the end of it, that you get the reconstruction period,
know. It depends on how long will it go out? Yes. But there’s a good there's also a good,
not a good side. But I'd say a realistic side on this is that, as far as norvik, mortgages are
not going to be foreclosed, they're not going to let people will be foreclosed and lose their
house, or loses any rent any party that doesn't have the money to pay their rent, not
going to be evicted. That's not they're not gonna let that happen. Because the
government cycle has happened, the courts are not going to let that happen. Now, you
could go to court. Next question is what happens now to the landlord, that doesn't get the
rent? Well, he’s going to stop paying his mortgage, or stop paying his bills. And as we stop
paying his bills, somebody is going to be hurt. The question is, how do they get
compensated? | think along the way, there'll be money which will, which will be available
or made available for anybody who is having a financial problem, that as a result of this,
which was totally unforeseen. The extent of it is to be seen, but there's no doubt in my
mind that it will be forthcoming. If you asked me ask me, if somebody wanted to invest in
real estate, at this, if you could get some money, or you scrambled money, you got it, this
is a hell of a time to buy. Because you got panic. The real estate didn't change the the
atmosphere or the country or what happens in the particular area did change. But there
will always be tenants to occupy your houses, the weather, weather, no question about it.
And there will always be ultimately, businesses, which will come back and can figure out
how to make money. But you got to have courage to do that. One of the things | would
suggest is this is this, if there is any, if you if any one of your listeners ready, and you have
an opportunity to refinance your mortgage or loan, borrow as much as you can for as long
as you can, as long as you have a right to prepay. The banks have plenty of money. It’s not
a modern monetary crisis. It's not that this is not that this is not like a where they don't
have money, or they have bad loans. They don't have bad loans. They're not mortgage
backed securities, which are they don't have that. If you don't if you don't understand or
you can't can't think what I'm saying. | just want to see how much does the banks pay you
for your money you leave it? What are they paying you less than 1%? Nothing? Why? So
why are they paying less? What is? The answer is they've got plenty of money, but they
can't put it out at a better rate because nobody wants to borrow. So they don't have the
opportunity. Yes, they will, people will refinance. And the everything that will be necessary
will be backed by the government, they'll give probably give loans, small business loans
business, they will have interest rates, and may or rates maybe may or may not be totally
repaid at a predictable rate of pay to time or within a period that anybody can figure out
because it's too indefinite. But having said that, real estate is real estate, and you're going
to get a lot of panic. And if somebody is panicking, and you want to go to real estate, and
you have the courage at that point, | think it's good, it's gonna be good. | don't know
when, how soon or what have you. But the basics are still there. It's still real estate, it's still
a business, there's still people that are going to have to be utilizing your product,

whatever it may be,
JO

JO

and doing everything that is necessary or available in order to mitigate the catastrophe
as far as people dying, being sick or being handled the problem with health workers and
appropriate materials. But it would caught everybody by surprise, not by surprise, you just
don't know it doesn't it hasn't taken a route that you can put a pin it down and say yeah,
this is what happened with polio, or this is what happened with the with other diseases,
scars or what have you. It's different. And until they basically give him some kind of a
handle on it, you're gonna have it to everybody is concerned, rightly so. And you're just

gonna have, you know, fear and panic. It seems like the unknown.

07:07

Yeah, terrible. Yeah, it seems like there’s three counter counteracting effects that need to
be balanced here, number one, to limit the spread of the disease and minimize the
number of people that are going to be impacted. That's, that's on one leg number two,
protecting the economy. Because if we, you know, bring the entire economy to a stop, that
could be almost worse than the disease. And then number three, making sure that the
healthcare system doesn't get overwhelmed, like we've seen in Italy, where their health
care system is absolutely overwhelmed right now. And it's a delicate balance between

those three,

07:43

always a balance, you have to do what, what is appropriate, or what they think is
appropriate, wherever you are, in the community. It varies. community by community
varies country, by country, it varies individual states with it with counties and individual
states. And they don't have a basically a handle on how many cases are out there that we
really have to be concerned about. That's the one. There are a lot of cases out there,
which we'll come up with the symptoms are mild. And if you leave the people that don't
go home, and stay in as they would if they had flu, that they will hit the their immune
system will come and will kick in. And they will be ultimately they'll be fine. But you don't
know how many of there are. And you don't know when there there were people that have
no symptoms or little fabs that are going to develop into a full loan catastrophe. | don't
know. It's just until you get some kind of a, an analysis by by testing. And that's the
problem is you need major tests, major amount of testing for people who think that they
are have the virus or may not have the virus or may have come in contact with somebody
and you want to and want to be judged had tested until you that is is there's enough
capacity out there to get the answers. My gut reaction it could be is there's a tremendous
amount of people that are infected by the disease, the by the illness, that doesn't as far as

I'm concerned. That doesn't mean that they're that they're it's critical, they're going to die
people, you all your people that are there. I'm sitting in my dinette the other night, and |
get a call and it says Washington DC. And | don't go to | get on and says is the voice
woman's voice? Is this George Ross? And | said yes. Who is this fingering? It's a crank call.
He says I'm calling for the president united states he wants to talk to you. whereupon he
got on the phone and asked me how my how | was and my wife. Hello, hello. Hello. You
can say a lot about what you thinking certain things. But saw that was basically
something that was one just wanted to know the how we were because and what had
happened was he was at a room full of people at the time. And somehow | guess they got
to talking about the apprentice. And my name came up. And Donald says | wanted to do
his secretary call George. And she didn't even have my cell phone number. So she hadn't
come sorry, from the office from Trump Organization to get my cell phone And he called
me on myself. Hello? okay not that's this the shows to this point there's a there's a
humanity there and most people most people are good in it. And when there is an
emergency, that's when it really really shows but they will pull the pulse together you'll
find a clump will cut through quirks it'll take it a scam artists or whatever but the bulk of
people, | say we're in a code word and common situation with solid. That's when you can
find out whether you got a good country or whether you got good people. Having said

that, give me a call next week.

5o.o0

JO

Thank you so much, George. Have a great night. Be safe. Oh. Oh, all right. Bye now.

© Robert 55:45

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

00:28

Well, we have a great turnout this evening. We've got some great questions as well. So,
okay, why don't we dive right in that we can? Absolutely. Well, welcome, everyone.
Welcome to our monthly mastermind with Mr. George Ross. George, of course, is best
known for his role in the Trump Organization as Executive Vice President, where he was
Donald's right hand man for close to 47 years, in business for 60 years, taught at the law
school at NYU for over 20 years and the author of two best selling books on real estate

and negotiation. Great to have you again, George,

00:58

even under these circumstances, it’s good to be here. And I'm like, glad to add anything

that | can to watch a credit card a chaotic situation.

01:07

Absolutely. Well, let's dive right in. So | think COVID-19 is pretty much going to be the
theme for tonight's call, because almost all the questions relate to that in one form or
another. Now | know you're a little too young to be around during the time of the Spanish
flu. Absolutely. But you all my father was born in 1917. He wouldn't he wouldn't have
remembered it, of course, but he would have just intersected by a year. What have you

seen in your lifetime? so far? There was the polio outbreaks in the 19 in the 1950s.

01:41

That's good. You can do polio, Africa, others you haven't seen. Basically, you haven't, they
never came out or what with a virus such as this, with the effect of that, | think the main
thing, or issue that comes out of it is it is very unpredictable. And you don't know how long
it takes to incubate how long it’s going to take to last and what it's going to do if you
don't have enough information to be guided, where you can make an intelligent
evaluation and the fact that you can't make an intelligent valuation creates a state of

panic.

02:18

Well, unlike polio, which eventually with a vaccine and achieving herd immunity to the

vaccine,
this not a big problem? If somebody misses a payment for a month, on a mortgage? What
happens if they miss it for a year? Now you're talking entirely different situation? What
happens if they never have the money to repay? And then you got all these debts, which
all the loans which go bad? But understand this is not only real estate? What about the
debt, the bonds and so forth by all these major corporations can navigate to they haven't
got the money to pay? What about the dividends that people relying on when they when
they bought the stock? And now also the dividends? dry up? What happens if you bought
airline stock? There's real questions, too. We don't have an answer. Because it’s, it’s too
soon to come up with an answer. There's too many indefinitely. So what | would say in
answer to your question, Stephanie, | would not talk to the banks. | would just let us let's
see what happens over the period of time, and you will be able to do things with banks
you would never believe you could have done. And the reason that will be is that behind
the banks will be the government making sure that the financial system works and the
banks have money to lend and they are going to be protected and they're going to have
to get the full faith and credit to the Government and whatever it’s going to cost to have
government guarantees. This is not not something that hasn't been done before you just
don't know the scope. But because that's what you're going to have. So ultimately, it’s
going to wash out as to how when, how difficult it will be? | don’t know the answer to that
nobody does. But | would say just sit tight. If there's a payment you can't make, don't
make it. Don't worry about being foreclosed. Don't worry about the bank's foreclosure you
don't worry about they haven't. Now just look after yourself on how you can how you can
survive and those people live depend upon you. Does that answer your question? Yes,
thank you very much. Well, | don't know if | get that. But definitely not. This is no time to
negotiate. That you don't how bad it's going to be or how good is how good is you will
have anyone that's got this will have a very good in my estimation, will have a very good
negotiating position in the next few months. And for purchasing, you also recommend that
we wait. Now if we think that is the right time, I'd say we're going to get the money, we're
going to get the money. As | can see, it knows if you went out to buy a piece of property, it
could be a good piece of property, but you want to get a bank loan, they're going to be
very hesitant, because they're not going to want to make loans, they should they got
plenty of money. But they don’t want to make loans on new product. | don't know the
answer to it. But if you have the money sitting sitting there, or you can raise the money
yourself from savings or from refinancing debt that you have, and you have excess
money, wow, that's your down payment. So don't put up a lot of cash, just put a down
payment, pick an option to buy lots of things, | wouldn't go haywire. But if it’s good if a
deal comes up that you think is really good, it'll be you'll be you'll get unbelievable
negotiating position, because they'll pack and those are panicle. You know, they think |
gotta get out, | gotta do it. | don't know this is good. And they just over overreact. And |
could see all the reaction in certain instances, but | can't see overreacting when it comes

to real estate. It has too long a history
JO

JO

27:16

with ups and downs, the GA if there was a negotiation that was in midstream, and it

renegotiate. What would that look like?

27:27

Well, it's events, somebody says at that point, | want you to pull it up, | want you to give
me 30% down, | said no, I'll give you 10 wherever it is, whatever, they can't talk about it the
victim in a vacuum, it depends on the particular deal, how good it is, what the problem is,
what the exposure is going to be, and how badly or the seller wants to do the deal. If the
seller is is very nervous and wants to do the deal, you'll get some fantastic deals, you'll be
able to buy property with no cash. But you got to say with some kind of agreement to pay
with something down to also the but people want to get out of it. Because it's not money
making I'm not getting the rents, I'm not getting the income from the stores that | was
anticipating. And therefore they don't like that at that. So there should be somebody
else's headache. Someone who buys it says okay, I'll take the headache. But they’re not
going to pay cash dollars upfront because they are the headache. somehow they're going
to have to solve that problem. But it would be a good time. Absolutely. But you have to
have courage. It's definitely yet another question. Those were my main questions. Thank
you so much. Very helpful. Well, | don't know if I've been helpful, but maybe clarified from
my standpoint, my viewpoint. And I've been there a lot. I've been around a long time with
a lot of ups and downs in real estate in various countries in various markets. And various
types of residential one family houses, new construction. And so the one thing that the
what is always come out of it is real estate runs through cycles. And you get a peak and
you get a valley. And this is a valley, which is just unknown, because it couldn't, couldn't
have been foreseen or hadn't been foreseen. And that makes it more difficult to come up
with the with a solution. But | do feel very strongly that the federal government will come
up with this with what's necessary to solve the problem. And that's a major infusion of
cash. One way or another, you know, in World War Two, which you probably to your you
weren't even born yet, but World War Two they had war bonds, which they saw was the
people bought to support the efforts to digital money that they would give to the
government to do the build, build to build planes and build the tanks and everything. At
this And | was catastrophe. And they sold bonds. Who know whether those bonds were
good, but it had the government behind it. That's what you're going to have? No, we don't
know you're going to have the government behind a tremendous lending package or
small businesses, middle business, supply chain supply chains, airline, anyone, any group
does anything is affected you if you follow what's going on, everybody is in the same boat,
and everybody is treating it. This is very important. You don't it's not a question of

Democrats, Republicans, strongly senators, Congress, but it's not a question of what it is.
Olles

PC+-+March+2020+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

a Thu, 9/91:28PM @ 56:01

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, money, buy, question, banks, good, government, problem, virus, absolutely, business, pay,

george, real estate, mortgage backed securities, point, loans, effect, panic, long

SPEAKERS

Robert

© Robert 00:00

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

Oo ;

A 00:06
Good evening, George. Good evening, if you can call it that. And yes, indeed, it's an
evening.

Oo ;

A 00:14
My how our world has changed in a matter of weeks.

Oo :

A 00:17

Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Nobody could have figured it and, you know, kids, you can't

see the end of it. You can only speculate. Absolutely.
JO

jo

JO

JO

federal is the Fed will buy it.

38:22

So they're doing that simply to make sure that there's liquidity in the market, because if

there are buyers for the mortgage backed securities,

38:29

absolutely. You will say, there are buyers at this who's going to buy a mortgage backed
security, but a bank, who does not know if you go into the these companies in the do that,
that are private companies, they don't want to get involved with that. And there's no
there's no fine for us to buy mortgage backed securities, even though we're in the financial
business so that you got totally the big the big trader as well, you know, the, the Goldman
Sachs and all the others, they're not going to buy, well, they're not going to do who's
going to buy who got the government says good, I'll buy it, or I'll back it. So you get a
government guarantee for what's not for what, who, for the areas, which require some
major support. That doesn't mean the loans are bad. That doesn't mean they're not
gonna be repaid, it’s just the cabinet. Nobody wants to buy them only, the only one that
can solve the problem in the short run is they the government to get in a one of the things
that they must keep the banks liquid, for money that's going to be available, it's going to
be if they're going to write they're going to make loans to individuals, on whatever
security it is. Somehow those banks got to get the money to make those loans because
they won't be they may not be repaid, who's going to say who's going to solve the
problem of bringing up a government the government will back it wants you to loan this
money to you to the victor and take a note from him. He will pay you back in five years.

And we guarantee that you'll get your money.

39:59

One of the things that are On the Sunday announcement that was stunning to me is the
the Fed said that the banks are going to be allowed to draw their reserves down to zero.
That's unprecedented. Yes. Which means the banks cannot fail, even if the reserves are

drawn down to zero.

40:14

That's what the banks, the Fed government is saying fine. Whatever cash you have lying
JO

_)O

JO

_)O

and the government will be forthcoming? Well, certainly

13:03

the White House has been pretty clear about making some very bold,

13:07

very clear, very clear. And they've and one of the things that one of the things has come
out anyway is good, is you got away from the federal government telling you everything
and saying, hey, to the States into the individual, private business, private FYI, you got a
better idea, we'll, we'll do it. Forget the red tape, you don't have to come back to this
point, do it. If you can't, if we need medical supplies, and the federal government doesn't
have it, get it anywhere you want. So they've eliminated a lot of the regulations, which
were meaningful and put in place, but don't do and are not applicable in a case in a case
of an emergency. But | see, you know, you're gonna see all kinds of changes that will come
up in how government operates. As a result of this, | don't care whether you're in Canada,
or whether you're new United States, you're going to see it because now they're gonna
look and say, wait a minute, we didn't quit when we don't want this to happen again, how
do we protect and then look at the look into the future. And there's no doubt in my mind,
you'll have a deal they'll have a as far as the diseases because they'll they'll have a
vaccine, they'll have an anecdote before too long. It's not an unknown, the virus is just a

variation of a virus, which are the effect of

14:27

one of the big questions that | think a lot of people are having their minds is, is this a

blizzard? Or is it a winter? economically,

14:34

you know, who knows? No economically liquid this way? | don't think it let's put it this way.
It doesn't. | don't know that it makes a difference. One way or the other. The question is
when it finally settled down, what will it look like? And that's the question, is it a blizzard or
is it a winter? It depends on how long it lasts and the effects which it has. | can tell you my
opinion. Feeling is whatever monetary effect is going to be can be resolved, can be solved
and will be some will be mitigated and resolved because there's everybody's going in the

same direction. What's it going to look like when you're coming out? | don't know. | don't
JO

JO

_)O

Is it Italy? Or is it Canada or the United States, everybody's got the same problem in one
way or another, affected by this by the virus moniker. And the effects of it on each
individual country or each individual group is going to be different. But how different
twice you how long it lasts, whether it's too much up in the air, right now, there’s too much
too much of an unknown. When that becomes a little more known. You can make better
decisions. But right now, as far as you got, | would sit tight, | wouldn't sell anything. |
wouldn't panic, | wouldn't sell stock, just sit, sit and we'll see what happens in the next
week or two weeks or months or what have you. | think something will it will the situation

will clarify so.

ait

So George, we have a very specific situation where we have a project that’s currently in
construction. And so we have a lump sum contract with with our general contractor and
the plumbing subcontractor just informed the GC that they were not going to honor the
bid. And the GC is now out shopping for a new sub, to come in and fill their shoes. And the
reason they gave was simply the uncertainty in the marketplace. They felt that they
weren't on now. Okay, we've got a signed lump sum contract with the GC, if there is a

stressor here, who eats it?

32:08

Please can't You can't live with it. If | can't give you an answer, because | don’t have an
answer, what it will be how it's gonna affect a situation, here's a situation where you were
affected, because you had a contractor who dropped out of assign bid, right? And you're
trying to replace him. Now, if you can't replace where it's going to cost you more at that
than you do you've been injured? What are you going to get it back from the contractor?
Who are the sub who dropped out? | don't know. But a year or two, you're an injured party.
And somehow | think that the general feeling is that an injured party as a result of this
virus and the catastrophe that is created will be resolved one way or another. So whoever
the injured party is, is applier. Is it a building company, a contractor or a landlord or
tenant, whoever? Is there somehow, because this is totally not out of control as far as
individuals, because? And they'll have to be adjustments made as to what they will be? |

don't know, but the will they be sure. The court system is going to give you help, too.

Soe

Because the biggest question that | think a lot of people have on their minds is it’s one

thing to open the purse strings, but the second is what are the rules going to be around it?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

18:36

well, | can see a lot of political will to help people pay their rent to make their mortgage
payment and so on. | don't see necessarily a lot of political will to help the bond market
and there's a ton of corporate debt in the bond market these days, could this precipitate

and eventually become a credit crisis? If the bond market starts

18:55

out the bond markets, what will happen to bonds won't get paid? bonds won't get paid?
What are you gonna do? Okay? And then the cascade effect of that,

19:03

and at this point, not but go to the go after the to the corporation, they tell you because
you're not paying your bonds, but that's where the corporation will say, Well, hey, | can’t
pay him for the following reasons. And he'll get to get some relief along those lines. | got a
solution which is draconian to a certain extent. Hey, if it were up to me, | cancel all all the
treasury bonds which the good China holds. That would wreck China and create create a
tremendous effect. Also, you got billions or trillions of dollars now, if somebody says, Yeah,

yeah, okay, but I'm not paying. What are you gonna do? | very quiet.

19:40

Yeah. Yeah. Very interesting. Very interesting. That would certainly be a negotiation tactic,

that's for sure.

19:48

Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Because they have the bulk of the debt. The bulk of this book, also the
treasury bonds are in Japanese, in Chinese concrete companies. Yeah. | bought it today.
based on the fact that they were getting a choice on Monday, the way that they figured
that the United States is the safest place to have their money invested, and they were
right. But now it was a result of the pandemic. Where are you going to where you're gonna
invest it? So this is worldwide? Where would you take your money and put it? Right now, if |
could, if | could say if | if | said to Victor, Hey, | got a million dollars to invest, what would
you suggest? Or maybe, | don't know, know what, what good? Is that? The answer? How do
you know there's going to be a market for gold? Or, you know, gold. And gold basically is a

fictitious market. It’s something has always been on but it doesn't have any value, except
JO

02:26

yeah, but we can but post polio, the prop polio with the discipline, it had symptoms, which
you could take, and also at the point didn't have the it wasn't as, as we didn't have as
many deaths and God with people got maimed and what have you sure, and they
couldn't, couldn't operate. But it didn't, doesn't take the same pattern, or have the same
pattern is this, this, this, this fires today? Absolutely. Also, also, the fact you have to
understand is that you have so much mass communication now. That's every everybody
that's got an idea anywhere comes up and says something. And if you're listening to it,
you have a tendency to believe somewhere you want to believe, and they're all basically
saying, it's a horrible situation, it's horrible. We don't know what's going on, and they're
not wrong. But it creates a panic that may be unjustified to an extent, that's that’s my
feeling on it is that all the this is the virus basically, is probably there are a tremendous
amount of people, which are there, which are infected by it, but don't know anything
about it, and don't have any of the symptoms. That's part of the major problem now. And
if in fact, they are being tested, which they are now and you have a massive amount of
tests, you got new cases, but these are not new cases. In my mind, there were old cases
just didn't know whether they already had the infections. So the ones that they have that
are really critical are aren't that major, many, you know, it was the the death rate
compared to the amount of viruses or cases you're finding is not great, because it but
there's a lot more cases out there. And | don't think the death rate is going to change
dramatically. percentage wise, I'm not being flippant about it by any means is serious. But
the the fact that the the virus basically has a greater effect on both elderly people, people
with immune with weakened immune systems, that's fine. That's any virus including flu,
that you're going to have people that have a pre existing condition. Sure that's going to
be a problem. But you don't have enough information to indicate what the trend is going
to be and how it's going to work, put a play out in the open they know or seem to know
that. Yes, it's very contagious. There's no question about that. How is it How is this
conveyed is conveyed merely by touching it, but it's made by being a robot, it will, you will,
basically by air or that, or they know now is the part of it is, can be can last on surfaces,
how long it lasts, they don't really, really know. But they can find. So until you can pin

down how it's being spread, it's hard to come up with it with a solution. And that's what
they're trying to do now is to get it to a point where they can know how its how its spread,
and how bad is been spread. But you're going to have it with all the testing is going to
look terrible. The numbers are going to look horrible. But | think that the health system will
pick up and be up to it, albeit that it's new. And there still was it will pass. | just don't know
when nobody really knows when. But | think that the panic is something we've never seen
before. And there's I'm not saying it's appropriate or not appropriate? | don't know. But it
depends on who you ask. And what what do what they're doing. | don't know how it is in

Canada at this point, but the United States there, then they were on top of it right now
JO

JO

JO

JO

because a lot of people that can survive for a long period of time without getting money.

49:37

Well, absolutely right. In fact, | saw a study that was done by JPMorgan Chase, where they
looked at the bank accounts of about 1.4 million businesses that were held to chase and
they found that 29% of the businesses weren't profitable. And 45% of the businesses had
less than two weeks of cash reserves. And that's kind of the picture You're a small business

in America today.

50:03

It is, but it depends on Yeah. But basically are are more small businesses, gamblers are
short gamblers. You want to expand your business at that point, aren't any new build new
building new product prior more people? Aren't you gambling, of course. But if you figured
the gamble is going to work, and therefore you do it, but they they're not known for
reserves, the average person is not known for having a lot of savings for a rainy day type
of thing. That would be really realistic, till the rates of they say, well, we don't this is it, but
this is human nature. For the average poor, the average person, how many people figure

out | want to put her aside enough money for a year? Oh, absolutely. |

50:47

mean, |, when | tell people that we've got 60 days of food in our house, they look at me
like, I'm crazy. Yeah, | got, there’s no shortage of food. Well, that’s true. But | know that if

the supermarkets are closed, if they

51702

got to be closed, but the true mark is just somehow it's going to be paid. And somehow do
it, there's going to make sure that in this in this situation, that the people get food and
they get paid, it's got to be a bumpy road, but it will be done. And there's, you got the tire
the tire strength of the federal government, to get the situation resolved in the easiest
possible manner for everybody. I'll be it is a very difficult situation. And there are a lot of
details, which have to be taken care of. But they will be they will be and everybody just
have to be patient. You're not gonna be you're not gonna see people go hungry. You're
not going to people not going to be fed. You're not gonna see any of that. Will it be sure,

yes. Where they will go where they used to do it, where they used to get it falling. So that's
JO

_)O

JO

JO

true. But it will be resolved. There'll be government sets up to say, Fine, here’s what you
you need to buy groceries, here's a check for how many groceries you need to order Ours
is a check for 200 off, that'll last you for a week or whatever it is. It will, the will is there. It's
the the technicalities of how it’s going to be done or not. But it’s there. And we'll be done.
It's not something that you have to fear. I'm not going to lose my house, I'm not going to
get foreclosed out of my house. I'm not going to end up at that point. We were | don't
have any money. Whether my job comes back, | don't know. But I'll end up being
protected until such time as | can get back into the workforce. Okay. Very good. That's not
very good. This is about the best we can do under these circumstances. That's true. That's

true.

52:40

Well, George's always appreciate your insights and your wisdom. And certainly the words
from government mirror, everything you've said, the part that | think is not clear in a lot of

people's minds is how what's the mechanism? Is it going to be really a veiled habit? No,

52:57

it's not. It's don't have it because the reason you don't have it is you don't have the you
don't know the extent of the problem. Right, right. So if you don't really sit there probably
solid. For example, when you have when you have the mortgage backed securities that
went sour, you knew the extent of the problem, extended a problem, there's good, we're
short, there’s $100 billion worth of mortgages is you're underwater, but it was $100 billion
worth of mortgages. That was the extent of the problem here would because of the virus,
you don't know the extent of the problem, or the problems. That's until you do know that
you can figure out an appropriate solution. Why? No, you're absolutely right. We do but

not appropriate.

53:39

And | think President Trump is determined to make sure that this doesn't become his

version of training.

53:44

Right? No question, no question about it. He's got everything that he's done. This turned

out as far as | can see, be good, by the way, just as a sidelight that this really got all the
JO

JO

taken beg borrow every dollar that | could have every dollar to buy land in New Orleans.
Because what happened was an act of God Katrina wiped out an area that should have
been wiped out long ago. But the bill was, he couldn't the government could never do it
because of the people have lived in the poor people and you couldn't do it. And even even
though it was right. And | said that if you had the courage to do that, I'd say you'd see
nothing for a period of five years. But | thought | said | will, New Orleans will come back.
And | was exactly right. | mean, | didn't have any money to invest myself. And it was
beyond the investing type because I'm too old for that. But the concept was there. If you
can buy it, hold it and keep it at this point onwards. Great. It’s going to work. Same thing

applies today. Thank you. You're welcome.

47:39

So George, we've alluded a little bit to the appetite for investing at this point. And
certainly we have a project right now. Or | would say we've certainly hit a funding wall.

And it's been very difficult to engage investors in any kind of fundraising discussion. Right?
What have you seen in other downturns? How have you? Where have you gone to find
capital during during a moment of crisis like this? And when | sit down? Well, | mean,

equity

48:08

hasn't? No, there hasn't been a moment of crisis like this. Okay. True. To my, to my
knowledge, | mean, I've never been aware of a moment of crisis like this where it was
totally different. But in the UK, there was a there were instances where there was a
downturn in the market, a substantial downturn. And properties are a problem. And but
people couldn't pay their mortgages or they even though they guaranteed them. And the
thing you have to do you have to sit down with the lender and say, Hey, here's the fact.
What do you want to do? What do you want? Oh, | can't | can’t make my payments. | will |
want to make it but | haven't got the money, | can make it what do you want to sue me?
You want to foreclose? I'll do whatever makes sense. But this is the maximum | can do if
you sit down with someone who's on the other side of the transaction. And you explain
what you want to do in good faith to generally works out. But that’s what you have to do.
I'd like to pay you but | haven't got the money, | can't get the money, my bank will give me
your money. What happens when your people when you're far away? You can't i can't
afford to pay it. What do you do? What did the person do with the bank when the person
who says I'm not getting paid? What are they doing? They got to figure out how to get the
money from the government over somewhere. And | think it will be available. But it’s very

intricate as to how it has to be done. It's always done unintelligent patience, and quickly
