JO

JO

JO

B9220

like you. Absolutely, absolutely. But they'll go and do it, that they bring in the partner that
actually you not use has to you have to convince the partner that's going to the you know
what you're doing. And the first thing you're going to say good. What's your track record?
Well track record is the track record is is | did | did five of these smaller projects, and they
all worked out well is the financial statements, the p&l on those five transactions. So now
I'm ready to go into a major transaction. But if you don't have the first five, it's going to be
hard to convince somebody that you know what you're doing on Larger basis, because
you're the one saying it's going to work.

40:03

Yeah. Now if this person we bring in to see the deal understand the deal as well. And I've

done deals of this,

40:09

that's fine. If they can see it, you see the deal, and they're not relying a great upon you,
the answer is sure. But this depending on what role, what role you're going to play in the
deal after it’s after it's basically sign. Yeah, and what is lesser? Yeah, | mean, who will you
who it's not just something that says spot? You're out of it? When you sell it? Or you you do
it? Are you finished limit? Or are you still involved? You're still involved in the that's a good,
but what do you do? And you got to prove that you have the criteria? to do it. So if you're
going to build a building, or get involved with the with construction of a building, you have
to say, Yeah, | did it before | constructed it, or wasn't the same. But at the same time, |
have knowledge in the construction industry. And | brought my buy, or bought all my
projects in under budget or on budget or on time. And so you have to show that you have
a track record that you can perform what it is that they think you're going to perform, or
you say you can't, what you're worth to the investor, if you can prove your worth to the
investor, he’s going to invest if you can't, and not totally the invest in loss, not in the
project itself. Yeah. But the The main thing is, is, if you're an investor is that good, you got
to watch out yours and steal the project. If they don’t need you, they steal the project.

They tell you, I'm not going into it, but they like it. And they just put this one eliminate you
as the middleman, so they don't have to pay you or they have to pay for your expertise.
So you have to watch out that that doesn't happen. However, you're dealing with

someone that's only in the financial end and doesn't have the expertise to do the
construction or to bring to you, that's fine. There are people who just want to put in

money, you've got to be putting in the money, that's fine. Just make sure that what they're
JO

go on, let's do some other deals. And | can spend my time working on something that's
going to be more productive than a constant negotiation situation, which is going
nowhere. That's great advice. Yeah. And it's important to visit for the people that are
listening to this when it comes to time, put a time limit that when you would when you
have negotiation, negotiation, negotiation, negotiation, and you have something on the
table, put a time limit and say here, that that's it time we'll take a leave it and if the time
limit is not met, you leave it. In other words, no, take it, you're gone. That's not so it’s got
to be something that they respect. So if you make the time within 30 days, 60 days,
whatever it may be, or they say Good, that's it was the end of that period of time you're
you're gone. Though you can't make a time on the gun, give me another 30 days, all you'll
do is end up in negotiation on a constant basis because he knows the original time limit
was not something that was was real. It was fictional. And this is one of the things things
that I've always done in my negotiation. When somebody says it's got a | gotta have a
deal. We got to sign the papers by next week. And | say, oh, by next week. Look, the truth
is I'm going to be out of out of the country for the next week at this point. How about
instead of next week. week after that faces, okay, the week after all it shows is, Hey, that
was a funny time with it. There was no reason for it, other than the fact that you took her
portion, so detest the timeline and see whether or not it's a legitimate timeline? Or was it
just a negotiating stance, which is it's not a line in the sand. | love it. He was a lot to be
learned in that type of situation. He's got a test three, well, a result. And otherwise, | would
go back if | were in this situation, which is there and say, Hey, do you really want to sell the
business? Or do you want to just go negotiate? And I'd like to see what he says, is what |
really want to sell the business, then you got to be realistic, you have to take part of the
risk, if you don't want a part of the risk, | don’t want to buy the business. So that's what |
would do. But | think in this instance, and it's coupled with a family member, it's not there
other deals around, they're more valuable timewise. And whatever the greater likelihood

of success that takes care of that one. | think perfect.

20:57

| do. | do, too. Okay, the next question comes from CJ. So she's been trying to raise capital
for a small project and hasn't been getting a lot of success. And she’s been trying to
network and relationship build with a lot of private money lenders, she's essentially been
cold calling acquaintances, and that hasn't been working very well. So the question is,
should she be taking a different approach, you should be slowing down having a smaller
number of deeper conversations, versus talking to as many mental potential investors as
possible? And how should she be approaching the conversation? Because what she's

doing isn't working?
JO

JO

project, we're just trying to get started in development. But even searching for small bass
hits, we end up making bigger and creating a home run by finding projects maximum
potential, reasonably these happen to us again, the problem lies in the fact that we're
inexperienced, we don't have the biggest track record, we can't fund it slowly on our own.
We haven't been successful yet ever raising capital for these types of projects, the
numbers, the locations are great, but we can't seem to get them off the ground. What can

you say to help us solve this problem?

S7r1l

Well, let's solve the problem with the you know, the, every time when you go from a small
project to a large project, the risk becomes that much greater. If in fact, you're you're
betting the ranch, or you're getting some people that are going to bet the ranch on that.
And you don't have the expertise because you didn't have the hands enough experience in
handling large projects, they're going to have very severe repercussions. So you got to
crawl before you can run. As simple as that. And so you you, you have to focus on projects,
which you can handle smaller ones, even though it’s very attractive to think | can do it. But
if | can do it for a small project, | can do it for a huge project doesn't work that way. It
doesn't work that way, you guys, you got to cut your teeth on a smaller project. Because
what happens if that goes sour, you can handle it, because it was small enough. But you
know, after a major project that goes sour, you're out of business, and you just don't have
the expertise and you don't have the the unlimited funds that are necessary to do very,
very tempting. Oh, it’s very tempting, because the numbers are there. And they're Yeah,
they're the numbers. What do you what is the risk is, is that much greater, and you haven't
got the experience to handle it. And you learn by handling the smaller projects and saying,
this happened, this went good. This went bad. And how do | solve it next time. At this, if |
go to a bigger project, they're all the same. The projects is just a question of one’s involves
more dollars, and the more dollars or more of a risk, depending upon what you have to
accomplish, to do it. So if you're, if you're building a one family house, it's not like building
a major apartment facility. Alright, this concept is basically the same, but the risk is not,
you have to be careful to keep the risk within bounds. And this goes experience Don't rush.

Take your time you learn. That's how you learn. If you have

39:09

a problem that comes up on a small transaction, you learn from that, if that problem
came from a larger injection around a business, George, is there a scenario where we're
Matthew and Patrick, bring in a partner that you know, they can see the project? They
they get it under contract, they get it off the ground, but then they bring in a partner
JO

_)O

JO

get a major company that says yeah, he's going to do it. So to the extent that the sale
price of the units is less than the amount of loan, we'll come up with the loan will come up
with the difference. So they now fill in the gap of a major change in the marketplace
between the time we consider making the deconstruction and the actual date of sale
because maybe it is maybe it's not, because you're not saying okay, fine, I'm gonna, I'm
building this for 600 million, and I'm going to make 800 million so | got a 200 million
profit, but | don't see that 200 million profit unless | sell the units three years after | build
them. So you have to You you work out a deal with with a some company that's willing to
take the risk that this happens to give them assurance to the ultimate lender, be it a
construction loan or permit or takeout or whatever is not a new or unusual, very good
concept and works worked very well. And not difficult to get somebody who, right
because what they're not putting up any money? Well they're putting in. So that's correct,
you're putting up a guarantee. Correct. And now if you can convince them that you did
you know what you're doing what you can based on your past the track record as to how
good it is. And the only thing you're really doing is you're giving them additional security,
but the difference between making a loan at 65% of value as against 80% of value. So
that's that’s the difference. And that’s it's arbitrary on their part. Yeah, it works fine. works
fine. But so you know, something to definitely consider. And there are entities, moneyed
entities, which are willing to do that, because what they're doing, they are guaranteed,
they are effectively saying if, say, Good, if the loan goes sour, I'm good for 16% if the deal
goes sour, but you know, the deal is not going to go south. And the risk is not that great.
And they'll look at you say good. What's my what's your track record? Well, your tracker is
going to indicate good | know what I'm doing and building and it came out it worked out

very well. Very interesting.

31:23

So presumably they occupy from a security standpoint, second lien position, although it's

not a lien as such.

B31

Yeah, exactly. Right. Without without a guaranteed sick without a guaranteed mortgage
or anything. Yep. No, it’s not a second mortgage. Well, they only needed to find that

correct. Well, we needed to find a price. absolutely fascinating.

31:44

Okay. Well, on the topic of final game, we've had another offer, this one’s kind of off the
JO

JO

wall. And | don't know how seriously to take it. But | know that you and Donald have done
a bunch of work in the bond market. And this is to do essentially an industrial bond,
instead of a conventional construction loan. Now, your traditional bond underwriter
simply underwrites the bond, and at the end of the day, you still have to market it. In this
particular case, the bond underwriter claims to have a relationship with a collection of
foreign investors that are looking to place funds in US industrial bonds, enabling them to
take funds that might be sitting in lower trust accounts in the US and actually put them in
the work in the US in a tax advantageous way. And they're they're trying to make the deal
quite attractive, almost like a risk reversal is only a very small, it's a $20,000 upfront fee.
And then they would take the their fee for the full underwriting and placement of the
bond at the back end out of the bond proceeds. That almost sounds too good to be true.

What what are your thoughts on this?

32:51

Well, I've seen it I've seen it done. At this put this I've also seen extremely hazardous for
the sponsor, whoever the sponsor may be as good as it sounds, and it does sound it does
sound really good. When | say assuming now that that gets done, first of all, you're going
to have to go to get it through some federal or state agency who's it's going to this
basically is going to say, okay, you have to register through the Attorney General and
you're ready to file a prospectus or whole plan as to what you're planning on doing. Now,
if in fact, if it gets done, if something goes sour, whoever wrote it, the sponsor is going to
be personally on the hook. | don't care what the papers say, because you're going to have
a lot of bondholders which are unhappy. And they're going to say, you misrepresented.
You said, this is not that didn't work out. If it works out fine. If it doesn’t work, God, you got
to get more for everybody to board a bond, you're going to end up with a major lawsuit, in
which you're going to have a, you know, one basic party that starts a lawsuit and
everybody joins on. And that's where you have a problem. And you will also have the
government whoever wrote it, whoever write it in directly involved, because they may say
to the to the state, why did why didn’t you check it out? Why didn’t you? You when you
said okay, and you gave me the authority to do this under this underwriting at this point.
Now, attorneys bad you did something wrong. So it’s a monumental lawsuit, and publicly,
depending upon who the bondholders are. It’s a question. I've seen it done very well. I've

seen it I've also seen it basically blow up.

34:33

Right? So while it’s non recourse on paper, you're going to be facing major litigation in the

event that something goes
JO

JO

paper. So they're turning it into good dollars. It's about time it was tackled everybody's
recognize it. But now is the concept. The tariffs are bad. They are a problem in today are
totally they're not reciprocal. For example, if you can't you can't sell United States cars in
Germany, they put a high terrify, well, why don't we put a tariff on the German cars turn
off, though. Meanwhile, that’s why they can be competitive and sell their car their vehicle
into the United States. But the United States can sell their vehicles into Germany, or other
countries where there is a talent, if you have free trade should be free trade. But but it's
not. It’s that really free when you have different tariffs put on different goods in different
countries. So it’s a it's a bit of a problem. Still a problem Gump going on for a long period
of time. And my feeling is on this is gonna be solved. It's just a question of when | think
that Trump is on exactly on the right track. And | don’t think that there is any decision
coupled with the fact this is what he said he was going to do. Yes, it does. So that's going
that's a major factor. Because if you look at this record, Bloomberg, any everything else,
he seems to be doing what he said he was going to do whether anybody else likes it or

doesn't like it. It’s not an idle threat, in my estimation. Yeah. Absolutely.

09:40

Anything else he could do to strengthen or maintain his leverage that he's not doing?

09:44

He’s got the leverage. Know, the leverage is actually you're going to see is they're going to
go they're going to go and put bigger tariffs on Chinese. So you're now looking, you're
saying 200 billion of imports as against 60 billion of exports. Hey, that's 140 billion. Even if
to straighten it out to 100 billion, it’s a lot. It's a lot of money. So it's just a question of how
much are we willing going into, but it was only the cost of the cards are in the United
States favor, not in China's favor. They don't like walking away. But nevertheless, this is
what has been created. And if you get the intellectual property concept is something

which is very, very real. And you know, they've been taking our intellectual property, you
can't patents in China forget, you know, they don't the United States patents they don't
recognize so they steal your know how your scientific know how to make products that are
cheaper and sell them back to you will get a lower price than you could get. But they say
buying the technology, not buying it, they're getting it free, and using it to their advantage
does indeed, yep. Okay. That's the story without we haven't solved that one. But keep an
eye on it. My question is, would be solved. | don't know when but in the not too distant
future. | think China is going to blink, they have no choice when they get to get down to it.
And | think a good part of it comes up is that every all the other presidents knew about
this, but nobody had the courage to tackle it.
JO

JO

JO

wrong, you have a problem with the family. And you don't need that type of aggravation.
We have a dime buying from independent party if things go bad, it's not doesn't affect the
family relationship. But that's that's just not an ancillary item. That's not the main issue
here by any means. Right? What you have here is a not a typical, it's | would say it's a
situation which you run into many times, and that is that you have the other side is inept,
inexperienced, or not strong enough, and they keep going, they don't really negotiate to
keep trying more and more. So it’s harder to make a deal at this because they constantly
change it. The transaction as it were originally contemplated was fine. And to turn it from
a cash basis to a some type of a finance purchase of a company becomes very hazardous
and you don't really have a knowledgeable seller. It's the fact that he doesn't know the
businesses or he doesn't know the price. That's what besides you don't have it and doesn't
look like it. One of the one of the parties is involved loves to negotiate, negotiate,
negotiate, but never finishes. And that's a problem. Anyway, so the thing is this solution to
it is very simple. You set a time limit, and you tell the seller Hey, if you're not ready to
honor the original deal, forget it. I'm off, I'm gone. And you got a week or two weeks at
that point to tell me yes or no and then I'm added here. | am my time my money up and
other other areas. Now that may or may not work, but if it doesn't work, go on to
something else where it will There are so many situations which come up with all you can
do, you can negotiate, but you can never finish because you got to the people on the
other side, or they love to negotiate, but they always think they can do more, or they're
just not ready to make a deal. They have to be critical. You have to want to do it. | don't

think in this instance, the Bleep. The seller really wants to sell. It turns out,

Ta

he wants to sell Yeah. He wants to sell on an unrealistic basis. Correct? Yeah, correct. And |
think

15:27

this is one of these things that | see is very common. In fact, | was reading a statistic a
couple of weeks ago, where of the businesses that are owned by baby boomers that are

aging out of their business, only one in 13 will actually sell goods will shut down.

15:42

No, | had a an analogous situation. All right, in its port was far as also Apple came up
through saw Goldman, were buying a hotel in Milan, in Texas, mineral wells, Texas, the

price was a million dollars in paper, because the hotel was in bad shape, went out of Texas
JO

JO

resolve it also indicates a major component, a major country like Canada, you know,
we've got gone to the bargaining table as far as tariffs are concerned. And | think this is
be very helpful and further negotiations with China. | just think it's a question of time,
based on the the imbalance, do you think the midterm elections? No, | said, That's not
gonna happen, | do the midterm or what have you, when you get down to it? What's the
effect, the effect is a products which are made in China and sold in the United States are
going to have a tariff and have a higher price. So people who whoever it is is going to buy
those goods is going to have to decide, do | want to pay the higher price, or at that,
because it makes it makes sense that that I'll deal with companies which don't have that
where | don't have the tariffs, so they're from other companies, other countries. So that's
ultimately the consumers are going to make the decision as to whether or not how
beneficial it is to to buy Chinese goods, as against goods that are available in the
marketplace, from other countries or from the United States. And that hasn't played out
yet, because the tariffs have laid in. But when you're talking about the fact that the total
imbalance, if you straighten that if you do something to straighten out the imbalance
between the two, it's so dramatic, between 16 billion and 200 billion. If you bring you you
bring bring it in line with 100 billion, that's a lot of money that comes in it can be can be
used for prop for doing dances in the United States. That's a lot of money, especially you
could get part of it to do companies do agreeing to do business in the United States, and
give them some kind of a bonus with the fact that they will now be competitive against
with Chinese goods. That's a quite a can of worms, but it's it should be resolved. | think it
will be resolved. It's just a question of time. It has to be. It has to be it has to it has | mean,
it has to be because of the fact that the China needs the United States as its customer
more than the United States and he’s trying to as its customer, and there are that many

goods made in China at that point that are so good, except from a price standpoint.

07:51

Absolutely. When you consider that China holds 25% of US Treasuries. The reason that
happened, of course, is because of the trade imbalance. This court has not known what to

do except go buy US Treasuries with all those excess.

08:01

Well, that Yeah, but what what has happened is that the imbalance has created the
deficit. And you're writing out war bonds, which China is buying. Why? Because we know
the United States economy is great. You're not buying them because they intend to lose
money. But they know the United States economy is great. Why? Because they're pushing
it up by selling their goods. Attractive basis. They are now also buying United States
We'll take it out of our reserve. That makes sense. Yeah, that’s a good point.

fo 48:06
Yeah. So we'll take it out of a reserve. And we'll we'll we'll get it back. So we'll make a loan
to you based on income your car, you're going to get in the future. Right.

fo 48:16
Right. works fine. That's great. That's good advice. Thank you so much.

A 48:20
And setting up the reserve is wonderful. Yeah, we're pretty big about that. And that's big.
Again, a big big concept we set up reserve. So you're what you really done is you created
a contingency fund. Right? And that's great. And it certainly becomes attractive to
anyone who's looking to join your organization. So I've covered my immediate needs are
covered. And | have an opportunity to make a tremendous amount of money if | can
produce, right. That's the idea idea. And it's a very, very saleable. You're on the right track.
Thanks. You're welcome. | appreciate it. Okay, Victor.

A 49:00

Yes, we're at the top of the hour. We didn’t quite get through all the questions, so we'll
keep them for next month. Next week. Yeah, next month, or whatever. Right. Okay. Thank

you so much, George. Have a great day. You too. Alright. Cheers. Bye for now,

© Robert 49:12

there’s another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful
syndicating
JO

JO

60 billion, about half of US exports to China. And then the White House in turn said while
they may cover the other half with tariffs as well, now, of course, tariffs are not the point
of the negotiation, it's all about the balance of trade, you know, that they're really a lever
in the negotiation. And it's really all about access to the Chinese market, which is very
much a closed market. You know, China's respect for intellectual property is somewhere
between low and zero. And in order to do business there, you often have to joint venture
where you a very, very quickly lose control. And | know many companies who have tried to
do that and experience that. So it's all about negotiation. If you were the lead negotiator

for the US, what would you be doing right now?

01:42

Just exactly what Donald Trump is doing? Exactly. At this point? Is this is this is gonna work
out? It’s a question. There's such a tremendous imbalance between the what we sell to
China and what trying to sell to us. And in order to correct that imbalance, you just have
to take a firm stand. And | think the first one that's going to blink is going to be China,
because they need the United States market more than the United States needs Chinese
goods. So there'll be an adjustment price wise, depending on the ultimate purchase price
of the items that are there. But | think that there's just a question over time you got to
when they can't when the imbalance is too great. They need the United States market
more than the United States needs the Chinese market. And if you notice, what's what's
happened over the past is that point is trying to host put tariffs on most many goods
coming from the United States and China. So they were already doing the tariff. Five, but
we haven't had corresponding tariff war tax put on no goods coming from China. And
these intellectual property is absolutely true. What has happened is that companies a lot
of US companies have set up business in China, because it’s very attractive there from a
tax standpoint. But now you have all these Merkin companies making Chinese goods and
selling them back to the United States at a no tariff. So this is a an ongoing situation,
which | think will be resolved is just a question of time, between the two positions. At that
point, the the United States position is is much better than the trainee position and sooner

sooner they're

03:11

going to realize it, you know, it's interesting, tariffs are kind of a blunt instrument, but in
truth, China's erected some non tariff trade barriers. And so that's really what you know,

he's trying to tear down here, correct?
JO

JO

JO

JO

2132

Well, the conversation and the cold calling doesn't work, when it's a cold call, even

dealing with people that are not cold calling, but have not are not real active investors is
hazard is difficult, though, what is missing from what you're saying is does CJ have a track
record? If he has a track record, then she that's, that's what yourself? If you have no track
record, forget it. Why should they deal with you, they'll deal with some of some other
companies that has a track record, show me Show me that show me the goods, and I'll
decide that | want to invest with you. So you need a profit loss statement, you need a
business plan. But you have to have a project with a track record. And if in fact, DJ is has
a particular transaction, which which does put up money of her own, wherever she got it
from, from a mortgage or from a loan from a relative or what have you. And she's got that
they got something in the deal. That's a calling card. People don't like to go into
transactions where the sponsor of the transaction has no, nothing, you know, no fat in the
fire. gaps get in the game is right. So it’s it's do it cold doesn't work, because they want,
why should | invest with you? You have to show them what did you do? | mean, you Well,
you know, you're not that good. If you can you sell a product or a project, you haven't built

those people you don't even though,

23:01

the only way that I've been successful in doing that, for example, you know, right now I'm
doing a large multifamily project. And | have, you know, | haven't done 300 unit

multifamily projects. So | brought someone in as a partner who's done 10,000

23.13

fine, that's fine, but niwot. But they've got that's what the track record is. The track record
has been somebody who's done the 10,000 | think she has that so that she has that in her
team. But if he has that that’s that's what basically that you should be selling. Say, here's
the track record here's was give him a prepare a business plan showing good. Here's the
investment, if you put in X number of dollars is the return you're going to get and how
much how much profit you're going to make over a period of time and back it up with
with all the reasons why with the put with the financial information and everything that's
critical to convince somebody that's a good deal. But just going cold, cold calling doesn't

work.

23:51
JO

JO

JO

So one of the things | think she's struggling with is also developing relationships to deepen
our relationships with the folks who are looking to place money. Would you have any

words of guidance for her on how to establish those? Well, yeah,

24:02

they're looking to place money at this point is that you can't unless she's got it, she has
sources of transactions. And she thinks that's good. So what now what you already you're
not really the your broker, you know, you if you want to broker the deal, somebody has got
to somebody else has a transaction that you go to sell it, that's fine. If you can do that,
and you make the money from the person that you're that you're selling is the product,
that's fine, too. But a broker, if you try to do it yourself as a principal, without having the

capital without having a track record, it becomes inherently very difficult to do. Well.

24:40

If you look, for example, at the very first project that Donald did. | mean, he didn't have a
track record. He could have positioned himself as a broker and taken 2% but he didn't he

negotiated himself into the deal as a principal.

24:51

No, but he wanted to be the principal. Alright, but way different calling card. Yeah, you
had a father there who's, who's who worth hundreds of millions. So that was the that was
the calling card and you say good, why? Why should? Why should it work? Because Well,
hey, I'm Fred Trump son, and my province got built properties all over New York. And this
is my, the basis of my expertise. So take a chance with me, but and they said, okay, along
the lines that they would do it, but it was not the other people were in putting in the
money. They were putting in the expertise. And all he got, that’s why he got up with a
hotel at that point, you had to get hired, and put everything together and show that it's
going to work. Not the way the only way because your your work may be novel, but your
calling card is that you are Fred Trump's son, and he’s got a lot of dollars. And also smart
enough to use some someone who had political savvy and track record savvy in dealing
with government, we're dealing with governmental agencies in the cities and cities in the
state. And he became your court, the face that will be used, he gave credibility to the fact

that Donald didn't have any experience. That makes sense.
Ollee

PC+-+September+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross+
as Wed, 9/8 12:06PM @ 49:29

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

deal, good, china, project, tariffs, business, negotiation, money, chinese goods, buying,

united states, sell, building, loan, track record, imbalance, company, question, absolutely, bond

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross
mastermind. Good evening, Victor, how are you? I'm great. How are you? Yes, yes, fine.
Thanks.

00:09

Die)

Let's jump right in. We're ready when you are thrilled to have you with us again, many of
you are wondering how you become a senior executive in the Trump Organization, the
first thing you do is you work for Sol Goldman for for 10 years and do 700 deals. That's the
preparation. Right, George? That's absolutely correct. What | thought we would do today
is a little bit of a theme, where | know that there's been a lot of questions that have come
up over the last couple of months, especially in face to face meetings that I've had around
negotiation. And many of them are textbook cases. And since we have the author of the
textbook, saw the textbook on the line, what better thing to do than to focus on
negotiation tonight? Well, let's jump right in. Good idea. So George, | think one of the
textbook cases is playing out in front of us in the news. And that's these trade negotiations
between the US and China, the US and Canada. And you know, on Monday, the White
House imposed new tariffs on about $200 billion of imports from China, affecting about

half the imports from from that country. And this week on Tuesday, China retaliated with
JO

JO

JO

jo

JO

34:40

may be facing major litigation, which could which would be very expensive. And in
addition, whatever reputation you have is now gone. Yeah. So it's a it's, it's not the route |
would suggest that a prudent person take. | think it’s too hazardous and I've seen it, I've
seen it, you know, a gun came off, you know, they you know the story Would Trump
University? Yeah, well, Trump University, | was dead set against it. And | told that to
Donald | said, because what you're doing now is you're selling, you're licensing your name,
as if in fact, you're doing lectures and you're doing only the teaching, and you're having
somebody else do it. And what happens is, if they don't do it, right, they don't do it the
right deal the way it should be. If there's any recourse, they're going to come back to you.
And the answer is yes, it was, like a lot of money. | said, Yeah, you'll make you'll make a lot
of money. But you, it’s not the way to go. We don't license your expertise, if you're not

going to be directly involved. And you see what happened. Ultimately,

35:42

you know, even Robert Kiyosaki experienced the same thing with Russ Whitney.

35:46

Yes, you're absolutely right. Absolutely. Right. You can do it, it’s good. Because you're what
you're doing is your licensing your your it’s not your, your reputation, your licensing your
reputation. If | put my name on it, it’s got to be good. That's really what it is. We're really
what you're doing. The answer is, yeah, if this if you put your name on it, it’s not good.
They're gonna come back to you do you put your name on? | was you defrauded me You
did this and you end up with a big mess. And it’s, it’s just certainly not worth it. Great

advice.

36:20

Okay. The next question is from Matthew. Matthew, you're on or you're on the line.

36:24

I'm you're muted. We got married, sir. Yes, Matt? Good. He's sort of kind of answered the
project, or the question a little bit. Are there is there's a similar to the question CJ had,
we've had a recurring issue, we're not sure if it's good or bad. But we don't we look at a

development project. Even if we're trying to find something small, it turns into a large
JO

JO

JO

JO

11:07

Well, | think one of the naive things is that the Chinese believe that if the democrats win
an extra, you know, a couple of seats in the House, and somehow that'll tip the balance
against the White House. And | think a lot of the democrats actually will support what

Donald's doing in this case.

11:20

Absolutely. Mathematics are there, you can't not it’s not that that would that would
Donald is not so way out way out of balance by any means. And even if somebody says,
Well, we should we should not basically rough up the relationships with with China,
because of their their impact in their economy. When somebody is taking advantage of
you, you got to you got to fight back. And | agree, | don't think it has anything to do with
the election. And | do think that what's going to happen is then put the income and it’s
going to come into the United States, as a result of the of the tariffs, that money is going
to trickle down somewhere into advantage that you can use it to use your infrastructure,
or you can use it for all kinds of it's a lot of dollars that are coming in, unless you say well,
it won't come in because people will stop buying the in the United States are not going to
buy the Chinese goods when the tariffs, it's going to raise the price of it too high. | don't
think that’s true. But you also have to have a certain amount of a certain degree of

quality. And you can see if it's changing now, interesting subject. What's next

12:25

next questions from Michael Rhymer. So Michael has a situation where he's looking to
purchase waste management company from a family member. And the original offer was
to seller finance the business purchase. And now the seller is saying that they want cash.
Problem is the business hasn't proven itself to be standalone from the current owner, and
paying cash would transfer too much of the risk to Michael the buyer. And you know, the
the seller has really no experience selling businesses or valuing businesses, and they don't
fully appear to understand the risk and hardship and how to balance the risk. So they've
changed her mind several times throughout the negotiation, he’s unlikely to find another

buyer for the business. How would you suggest that Michael approaches this negotiation?

13:08

Well, it's a very good question. It's got a lot of facets to it, too, which requires that first of

all, buying something from a family member is treacherous. Because if something goes
JO

_)O

26:08

Okay, so next, this one is actually from my business. And I've been negotiating with
several conventional lenders on a conventional construction loan. And I've got a fair bit of
experience with construction loans at the 80% loan to cost threshold. And many of my
recent transactions have been at that 80%. But most of my recent conversations with
lenders, the lenders have started the conversation at the 65 to 70% loan to cost, which is
a pretty big departure from what I've experienced even as recently as a couple months
ago. And so, you know, I'm trying to negotiate with them. So I've offered to escrow
contingency funds with the lender escrow reserve fund to cover an initial operating deficit.
And you know, some of the lenders have said, that'll help, you know, that might get you to
75% loan to cost. But more importantly, some of my partners in the project are starting to
get scared by the process and worry that we're approaching the whole loan process
incorrectly. | believe we can negotiate with banks, and ultimately get the loan package

that meets our needs. What are your thoughts? What's been your experience?

2¢z19

Well, yeah, the answer is yes, you can, but have you thought about giving them some type
of a, getting an entity among money density, was, can give some type of a guarantee for
the discrepancy between the 70% and the 80%, or 65%. So get some companies which
are guaranteed 15% alone, if in the event that goes into default, and they get paid for that
privilege. So now that you've got a company's by putting their guarantee on the line, at
this, they get a fee for the guarantee, but the risk is remote, because of the loan in the
property is still going to get built. So the bank now, but the bank now says okay, | will
make the loan, and then | got 65% loan to value and they got 15% guarantee from an
entity department he's not security guarantees a recourse, which is a little different. Yes,
absolutely. And that's all they really need. Because that's where they would be if you had
the 85 to 80%, that makes up for the discrepancy between the loan the lower loan to
value and what they would do at 80. If it were 80%. And this is this technique I've seen
used many times Donald has used it many times notice to cover the difference between
the amount you have on a construction loan and the actual cost of construction, you get
somebody to guarantee the difference in the event that there is a foreclosure, okay, so it's
almost like a bond. It's a bridge loan for what it is with the bridge loan without money. If
you don't need the money, it's a contingency. It's a contingency. Absolutely. And they get
paid for. And this is this is I've seen this technique has been used in very, very successfully,
where effectively, you now have you're building a building, which Donald Of course, of
course built and he says is a sell on I'm going to sell all these condominium units, and I'm
going to make $600 million. And bank says, Okay, how do | know you're going to do that?
And do you have the sales car? | don't have the contract yet, but | will. But meanwhile, you
JO

JO

ready to make the deal. And after being wined and dined by the sellers, attorneys as we
we changed the deal, that a deal, we don't want to take the paper, we want a million
dollars in cash, | got on the plane and left. Simple as that, that we got nothing more to
discuss the concept changes has changed so dramatically that you have to question the
integrity of the seller. That's what | did did did there and the dude would never got made
that. So we're going to move on to the next here, | don't think this deal is ever going to be
made unless the prospective purchaser puts a time limit on it. And says, You got the you
gave you this was the original deal. If you want to do the original deal, give me his his it's
got to be done by a certain period of time. If not, I'm out of it don't even tell | won't talk
about it again, on through. And if you convince them that this works, they got a chance. If
you don't, you're probably not in my, in my experience, | would say the chance of making
this deal is 90%. Negative because of the people on the other side. Just admitting it's not
a real seller is the while you change it to all cash. | don't blame at this. But that was not
the way it was originally proposed. An additional factor as a family member, it’s a it's
going to create some ill will. So there is time there's there's a time and negotiation, you
have to know what to say, Hey, take it or leave it. And if the other side says leave it Walk,
walk doesn't mean the deal is off. It means it's off for now, when you got to that it will do
that you said I'm off, I'm not going to do it, the seller in this instance would probably go to
see if he can get a better price from somebody else, which it doesn't look like he can is he
not an anxious seller. And they may come back and say you know I'm ready to make the
deal. The original deal. Okay, you can design now if he comes back, now you can
renegotiate the deal because it indicates further weakness on the bottom of the seller. So
you got to take advantage say hey, | told you that deal was off. And now you come back
and you want it's not there anymore. But | made other arrangements for my money. And
you can renegotiate at a lower price because now you're the highest bidder. Interesting

race, tactical arrangement, but happens very often.

18:11

What a what a third party helping educate both

18:16

educate no question. There's nothing. There’s nothing to educate the buyer on, basically.
But from the from this work as soon as it's a small local waste management business,
which is what do you what are you gonna educate the buyer, the buyer basically says, hey,
there's more risk at this risk on the seller. So someone's got to take back paper, which was
the original deal, that’s fine, changing the deal with some financing terms to all cash. And

as it is, there's nothing educate the education here is a good The time has gone on. Let's
JO

JO

JO

03:21

Absolutely. Absolutely. It's a question, you know, is when you say, to create some kind of a
level playing field, that's the answer we've been ripped off for years as not only in the
United States, but other countries ripped off by yours by yours, because the Chinese
economy and the limited salaries they pay are so are so low, that they can create goods
for sale cheaper than somewhere else. But when you sell those goods cheaper than
somewhere else, somebody gets hurt, which is the the other companies that which was
can't compete labor wise. So they can sell the goods because they're being under sold by
the Chinese goods. And the Chinese goods are coming at cheaper prices because of
labor. So it's, it's a evaluate, they say, adjustment, which has long since been overdue
coming and nobody really tackled it, or wants to tackle it. Now, there are some companies
that are going to be hurt because they won't be able to sell their products to as much
designer because there will be tariffs on them. But that's not we don't sell that much the
giant now that's why you got the imbalance is really if American companies lose selling,
selling to China on an equal bout, you wouldn't have the Digi tremendous deficit. But a lot
of United States goods are not being would not be accepted in China without a heavy
tariffs so they don't go there. On the other hand, the Chinese goods or come in, do come
into the United States without a tariff. So they're very convenient. So it's a it’s an
adjustment, which over a period of time will work out. It's a question of, of not if in my
mind is a question of when the imbalance is too great. What I'm saying is trying to need
the United States to sell it to the United States much more than the United States needs
to sell it to China.

04:55

It seems like the ongoing negotiation with Canada where they're the trade is actually
quite balanced. And the only time the balance changes if the price of oil goes up five
bucks or drops S5 it's not that the volume changes, it's the price changes. Yeah, almost
seems like Canada's upon in the larger game, because not that's going to be affected

here as a rounding error by comparison.

05:16

Yeah, yeah, well, China, | agree with you as far as Canada is concerned, there is an
imbalance but it’s not a major imbalance by any means, as with what there is an
imbalance. But | think that if, in fact, the de the trading with Canada is worked out, and
they are effectively upon this is gonna send the message to China, that Canadian United

States racial relations and trade wise, has been resolved, and would be a good idea to
JO

JO

incentive is not paying is not overpaying in the year one, or right from the start. So the
incentive say if they'll if they're looking to make $100,000, you put in up give them
100,000. That what's their incentive to continuing on? So if you say, Look, | don't care if
you make 300,000 in this book, but here's what you have to do. Right now I'll pay you
50,000 a month, whatever the whatever the number is, but but you get a certain
percentage of what's what you bring in and what worth it is to the to my company. So
that that's the key, it works. What if the profit isn't realized for a couple of years? And the
person that is a lot? They've got a vested interest? Sure. We got a vested interest in that
you say you say here is what is the profit doesn't have to be immediate profit. But there's
has to be the the benefit that there's going to be available when the when the project
comes to fruition when they what they've done so they see they get the money just not
not right now, because you don't you know, in advance cash as against the a future
stream of income, like Sunday knows you're not guaranteeing the crash. But meanwhile
they bill up so you'll get 5% represent 8% whatever the number is of that transaction over

and above the money that we put into it make sense?

44:36

Do you think we should reserve a portion of the company's equity or do you think it should

be equity from a specific deal? No, you

44:44

can take you can reserve a certain portion of it, but the good but then you have to be sure
that you have the necessary documentation to indicate how that portion gets funded out
so that it's really easy to say fine so that you know his we would so it's it’s Having a set of
documents puts you say, look, here it is, what is, hey, if in fact we make x month X number
of dollars, you're going to get, it shows up in your salary, it shows up in your income. Now,
it can show up in two ways. One, it can show up in something that you have done yourself
in which case he had, or it can show up, if you are part of the company, you can choose to
share it as being part of the company, even if you did nothing. If your uh, your area of
expertise didn't work out, but the rest of the other people that we hired did work out, you
get a pieces, in fact that it worked that way. Exactly. It does. So it's, I've seen it done where
individual departments or individual projects are treated separately. And also I've seen it
where it’s, it's part of a total operation. So now you say, hey, if our company at this far
development company does what does great does over and over X number of dollars,
you're going to get a piece of it. If he does if you if you're in a specific area of expertise,
and your specific area of expertise becomes a moneymaker. You get a piece of that? Or

you can do it our combination. Makes sense? Yeah. But don't don't vain things stay out of
JO

_)O

JO

Die)

_)O

is giving a large income a large amount of income in initially because you think they're
going to develop or you think they're going to be very good. It has to be somebody who's
hungry, but and thinks that they can produce,

46:25

right? How would you handle you know, that person needing to eat why they go hunt? No,
as they want to improve it. They want to improve their position? They're not a hurdle. But |
mean, as far as you know, hey, you're going to come on board, you're going to do some
great things for us, you're going to share in the profit, the profit may not come for a year.
Yeah, but that that person needs to, you know, take care of his, you know, family and keep
the lights on at home. You know, how do you how would you handle that? Yeah, but you
could, you can work out all kinds of uses that to the to the extent that they're told that the
total profit isn't going to be there immediately when they want it, you can make some
advances right next to it to cover the time interval between the profits being realized in
cash and the needs of the employees. Right? Are

47:13

you building transaction fees or developer fees into your projects?

47:16

We are we are we we've just started that in the last three acquisitions. And, you know, we
have been able to pay salaries out of those to the existing team members, which has been
incredibly helpful. And, you know, we're trying to build up, you know, good operating
reserves for the company, on the right track, right.

47:38

Okay, we're on the right track and building up the operating reserves. And then for the
people that you bring in, they bring in that you're paying in less money than they need.
And on the idea the concept of getting future income, the reserve is that you now say,
look, any event that you really need more money, more money, you can't live on what it is

that comes from something fun, and unexpected expenditure.

48:02
jo

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

going to do

41:55

with you find the money, put together a good team that has experience and figure out the

structure. Exactly. So the structure to other investors

42:03

have absolutely right. Okay, very good. Okay. All right. The next question is from Ryan

Gibson. Ryan, are you on the line?

42:12

Hi, Mr. Ross. | Victor, thanks for taking my question. Call me George. Don't

42:15

call me Mr. Roger may sound too old. Go ahead. Go ahead.

42:20

| appreciate it. So we currently have a team of five people on our in our organization. And
one thing that we want to do is we want to continue growing our team, and we want to
hire the best people. So how would you structure the company so that we can continue to
grow and add the best people to our team, keep in mind that, you know, we were a
development company, so and we have small business cash flow, so paying the highest
salaries possible may not be the both the best, you know, may or may not be our may not

be an option for us. Alright? Okay.

42:35

This is not an unusual situation by any means. You ever heard of profit sharing? Yes, profit
sharing, somebody produces, they get to share the profits or they get a bonus. So you give
them the incentive is if they develop so many projects and make so much money for the
company, it shows up in their in their income, either and they get a piece of the company,

or they get profit sharing or it's a bonus. So that is what it builds in the incentive. But the
