JO

JO

you're on the line was going to suggest we talk with George about sales comp structure
and your dilemma where you've got an overpaid salesperson here right now. Yes, we can

hear you.

46:37

Yeah, so | had a train of thought earlier in my business career where if you take good care
of people, they'll take care of you. And what I’m finding with my salespeople is like, they're
making too much money, not in the sense that my cost of sales is high, like 6% 4%. It's so
but it’s like they had too much. Now they're not hungry anymore. And we're in a position
right now where we're confident that we can provide a great opportunity for salespeople.
But we don't have the systems and processes in place to manage all the construction that
comes down the pipeline. So we have one sales rep that has a lot of power of making too
much money. And we're in a position where do we bring on a third guy? Do we hustle and
put systems and infrastructure in place, just thoughts on running, sales work? Well, you're
having a very ticklish problems, but anytime you want to reduce somebody's salary or
some of their income at that point, that's a particular problem. Because what happened
at that point, if they're if they're really that good, they could leave and if they gave, they
can get a better job, they will take it. However, having said that, if somehow you can try
and tie their compensation, not only to the sales, but the the performance of the of your
overall company, On the plus side or the minus side. And that could work. So if the if as a
company, you go down, then there's their income goes down, if the company go up, their
income goes up. But the problem is with the sales this way you were you were to fix
numbers, it's to get away from that is difficult. But you know, you can do it. You just have
to understand you're going to create a animosity, because this is always had anytime.
Yeah. | mean, you know, the when when things went bad, and | never came across, that
was a 10% reduction across the board. Nobody liked it. But that’s what it was. As long as
you don't, if you don't basically go again, just one particular person. If you go against the
sales against everybody, it's more palatable, because they don't feel that they were
singled out. So you'll get one person say you're making too much. But Joe is not bizarre.
It's got to be fair. So you just raise prices across the board. And then you just lay out the
station based on the gross property delivered to the org or the price to bring it against the
MSRP. Yeah, yeah. It’s not easy understanding. You got to create a problem, but it's easier
for everybody to swallow. If they know every it everybody's in the same boat. It’s when it's

when it's you single somebody out that you got a problem.

49:08

Thank you. Okay, that's a good question. Well, George, that's funny, | never thought. Let's
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

keep going here. Go ahead.

49:16

No, | just like it blows my mind like the whole idea of a financial thermostat that you like,
Man work hard and make more money. And, like, now, you know what? I'm okay. What do
you mean, okay, like that to my mind as a concept? Yeah. But | would also at this point,
when you're when you're talking to this particular person that you have is overpaid. Try to
do it in a humanitarian way. In other words, Joe, | know this, this is what happens not easy,
but but understand the business. | have more problems than we had before. I've got this
and | need your help, and therefore you gotta reduce your salary. If you | don't say that a
work, but it's a lot better than just going on and saying, Hey, this is what happened. You're

getting 10% less this year?

50:02

Well, as | understand the GA the issue isn't the money, the issue is that he’s making so
much money that he's gotten comfortable and isn't hungry anymore. So question is, when

if you're not using

50:12

it, they can't know that you're in the wrong crack. Don't live anybody else's lifestyle. Right?
That's all No, do whatever it is at that point. He's not hungry anymore. That's fine. There's
good. What you have to be careful with to do that, you know, if you say he's not hungry
anymore, he may just up and leave. And new. Did you look at that and say, Well, | worse
off. If I'm in a better position, if | keep them even though I'm not happy with the salary? Or

at least, that's a decision which you have to make and carefully Why?

50:43

Well, in your experience, have you? What kind of non monetary things have you used to

motivate employees? When they're actually making too much money?

50:52

Yeah, give a vacation. Gonna vacation that point, say just point five, let's take away you

pay to be less. But if you produce it, you produce towards your producing give you a
JO

JO

That's a possibility give him give him the option to an option to participate or not
participate? sure whatever it is it's really a given giving him the feeling of you're that
you're concerned for the for them and for the loss and you want to do something to make
it up but you how you do it. Exactly. You can't pin it down because you don't know But
nevertheless, they're and they feel they're you're doing something to to make it better. But
there's the fact that was a misstep, hey, this happened so you don't know this. There's
nothing to be ashamed of. That happens over a period of time. So you know when you just
put the main thing is community | can say look good or bad, but I'm gonna do it. | mean, |
probably one of the best examples was a building in Chicago, which was built by Trump. It
was the condos were basically 100%. They were everybody the overall sold before the
building was even erected. Everybody put up 20% deposits. And then when the market
changed, and the building was complete, they walked from the agreement, they've never
been put up the 80% that | had to go back and speak to the the lender or that you had
and say, Look, I'm not going to get the prices that are there anticipated, because the
market is not there. They may they don't like it, but that's the fact. So you say okay, what
do we do now and you do the best they can the professor's your hand for a bad situation.
that's similar to what you what you got what you got been in any situation, what is bad,
because of circumstances that were not within the control of your party. Then you go
back and you say, look, this is this is it. This is a fact of life. But nevertheless, we'll we'll

work something out.

36:04

Now, if | remember correctly, in the end, that project turned out just fine. We were able

you're able to ride that out? No,

36:09

no. Yeah, yeah, that is but never turned out just fine. | mean, never don't never never
reached its original time flower was there because, but never looked back. Yeah, this is the
answer was yes. That got me. We took a longer period of time. And then he got some
benefit from the, the lender at that point said | can't can't make these payments, and they
just had a ride with it. But it's always you know, it's these bad things happen. But that's not
critical. It’s not terrible. You know, this isn't that litigation is just somebody unhappy
because they're going to bad situations. But people will have if you explain it to them,
they only have an understanding and say okay, at least I'm getting a fair shake. That's

wonderful. Thank you. Okay,
JO

JO

JO

JO

but they should not be in the parent, | don't see any reason to put them in the parent if
they're furnishing a specific product for for the individual entity, but certainly put them in
the individual entity. And that's how basically they get removed, right? | make sure that
the qualified, whatever the position you're looking for, put them in the entity, if they're
there for management, or therefore, for operation or events, that that’s the key. | wouldn't
spread them out. And then the only one person you put in the entity is somebody who's
going to handle all of it has a particular expertise that you need to cover the broad

spectrum of everything is in the in the parent,

16:45

right? So for example, they are not in the parent. Yeah, okay. Yeah, exactly. Right. Okay.

16:51

So for example, not to overuse the Trump Organization as an example. But if we were to
look at them, would you say that the the core Trump Organization is quite small, and that

most of the employees are in fact, hired by the individual projects?

17:06

No, the Yeah, they are hired by the individual project, but they're there, the overall is
apparent. In other words, there, each of the individual projects has its own payroll and its
own group, and probably somebody on the head of it that makes the ultimate decisions.
And that person would be responsible to the, to the organization, each of the people are
responsible to the, whatever entity they work for. So each of the golf courses has its own
facility, its own golf course, its own managers until a rolling budget. It’s all overseen
basically, by the CFO figures out each one the budget for each of the entities. And they do
that on an on an annual basis, and that he checks it out to see how they're doing as
against the against the budget, on a monthly basis or a quarterly basis. So these

individual employees work for the entity, not the parent.

17:57

Okay, so it's almost like a siloed set a p&l with, you would have in a general electric or any
other,
JO

JO

JO

JO

32:08

Okay, so next, George, I've got a partner who had a misstep in a project. And he seems
more or less destined to result in some, some form of loss. And he feels and | agree with
him that the solution for him needs to be to put the foot on the gas and start a new
project as a way of working his way out of it. It’s not going to fix it by putting his foot on
the brakes. Now, as real estate entrepreneurs, we really have the ability to generate
income at will, you know, by conceiving of new projects that bring additional income now
from from your experience when someone's in that situation. And we of course know, you
know the story of 40 Wall Street. But is it better to try and concentrate on a single
homerun project to work your way out of a problem or better to take the slow and steady
approach and rebuild using smaller, simpler, more routine projects that have a proven

formula?

33:02

Well, if you can't, you know, the the solution base to the problem really depends on the
nature of the problem was, but the first the first thing is is whoever is involved at that
point, go to your partners or the other and explain to him what happened. So he told him
Look, this is it that they will understand it if you if this is what happened, | thought it was
going to be good. Not good. It didn’t turn out this was | planned on this, or this change or
what have you, but you level level with them. And say now I'm going to make it up to you
by doing a better deal doing other deals. The nature of how you make it up really depends
on on what's what's available on your plate, | would not go for the home run. But if it's
there, go for the home run, begin the piece of the home run if it works, or if it's just bits and
pieces. You give it back to bits and pieces but you say good Meanwhile, I'm going to make
good or I'm going to ameliorate the loss which was suffered, which not that just

happened. It was | did everything | could but it didn't work out. The main thing is
communication. If you tell your partner to communicate with them, they'll they'll

understand, right when you try to keep it quiet, that’s the problem.

34:10

Would you see potentially granting an option on some of these other projects that are
down the road? That way the the aggrieved party at least has the possibility of getting
something back but they're not really tied in and obligated to it?

34:24
JO

JO

JO

24:44

No, my feeling would be that dependent percentage will change based upon the success
of the of the the income portion to the passive investor. So you can build in certain
numbers 100,205 whatever it is, you can build in some some percentage of return. If it
goes beyond that percentage of return, they shouldn't get more. So it should go down. In
other words, you can set up, you can build certain milestones, you say, well, for the first
100,000, you get 10%, for the next 100,008%, for the next 100,000, you get 6%. So that
you scale it down and effectively, but meanwhile, they've got a lot. In other words, they
shouldn't complain, because they're getting a lot, a lot. And they're only losing it because
they got more than anticipated. So that's what | would suggest the other was the other
way you can do it. But it becomes much more of a negotiation. And | don’t know whether
the results are good or bad. The more you try to structure it on a particular phase of the
transaction, that becomes harder. But again, depends on your deal. Some deals work that
we're working to get work on a percentage increase, others work on a buyout. That's,
that's my suggestion, | can't give you a definitive answer, because it depends on the
nature of the project.

25:56

Of course, that's wonderful. Okay, well, very good. So next question. Awesome. Thanks,
George. Go ahead. Next. So next, George, like to spend a little time exploring the concept
of hidden assets. And you know, there's maybe a few examples of what I’m talking about
here might be perhaps a cross collateral, or perhaps a zoning entitlement, which enables
you to increase the value of a project. It’s not readily visible to the naked eye, you have
some other examples of hidden assets that were brought to bear from either some of your

own past projects, or maybe from from projects within the Trump Organization?

26:35

Well, yeah, but the answer is, yes. But they're not the fact that they're, they're hidden
assets, you, there’s something which came up, which would come up at a later point in
time, which was not readily apparent at the time the project went forward. So it could be
some type of an easement that you either have or have to give some benefits or rights
that you can now give up by restricted by a restrictive covenant that you won't do
something that that the other side really wants you not to do. But you can't grow you
doesn't happen that often. And then it's unusual, because it is just to basically it's tailored
to the particular transaction doesn't happen too often. But the scope cross

collateralization is certainly one and any change in the project or the property or the, or
week's vacation somewhere, which we'll pay for. And basically then, so that's not income
to them, or they don't Claire, it is income to them. And it is income to them, but they won't
declare it. But nevertheless, it this is a low Hey, | got to | can do something | will not
ordinarily do. | can go somewhere or what have you. And same way. A lot of companies
that give some type of a premium to a producer to a salesman. So if you sell a certain
amount of TVs at that point, we've got a trip to trip around the Will you trip to one of the
places or we give something of value, but not more in more money. There must be
something that they would want that they ordinarily wouldn't soend the money on. And
you're saying good thinking that we will. I'm thinking he's a competitor. Like he’s another
guy just to wake him up a little bit. And then just bring that third guy. Well, it's more
fireplaces. Yeah, yeah. It's all there are at that point, but you got the problems already.
He's a fat cat. As a result, you did it. So you know, you go you're created though you
created your own monster. And charges hard to get it back. making a lot of money. So are

you he said he told the loyalty. Story. Cool. Thank you. Okay, | think we're through are we?

52:25

JO

| think so. | think we are thank you as always for a great conversation and we look forward
to talking to you next month. Great. Okay. Good night. All right. Bye for now,

© Robert 52:36

there’s another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

the area that you're dealing with, or the city at that point. Yeah, that’s a hidden asset. But
it wasn't there when when you started out, but it turned out later on over a period of time.
Yes, it was. Certainly if the if one of the hidden assets that could be now especially in the
United States is the tax structure, which you could have now that they didn’t have before.
So that's going to affect your return, if you're going to pay less taxes, and they will, you
may have benefits that you can get depreciation right off in a shorter period of time. So
these were, we're not there, but there's certainly a hidden asset, which would enhance the

value of the property, the value of the project.

28:03

That's actually a very good one is using depreciation or cost segregation?

28:08

Yeah. Yeah. And also, at that point, there is there the change, basically, also, the
depreciation rules, | think, have changed, though, with the amount of time that you can
write off something a piece of equipment is now | think, shorter than it used to be in many
areas, depending upon the what is what what the, the, what you're writing off, used to be
after write a building off over a period of 3040 years, or what have you, but machinery a
different time. But now, | think that you can one of the things you take out, you can take
advantage of the fact that some of the added some of the work that you're putting into a
particular project could be written off in a shorter period of time, depending upon the
nature of the work. And because they they want you to do what they want you to put it in
and improve because you get more, you'll make more profit. As a result, they give you the
benefit of the doubt that you can write it off sooner. So instead of having to write it off
over a period of 10 years, maybe five years, two years or three years, and also breaking it
up. In other words, it’s not only all machinery, it could be some machinery, it could be one,
one building as against another building don’t have to be the same. But that's something
that you have to look at particular, but it is certainly something to take into consideration
and was not available before there was a major change in the united and the tax law.
That's Yeah, that's very good. That's an accounting question. Yeah, tax guy tax question.
But it’s there are major advantages because they have the government basically wants to
spur putting money in building building your pride building your plant, building your
project, expanding what you do, give you some benefits if you do it so that you're not
penalized terribly by putting money into the organization is about effective. If they give

you inducements to do it. Quickly.
JO

Robert 06:51

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio Comm. Make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind. Successful
syndicating a hay syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly
George Ross mastermind.

07:12

Okay, next question is from Dave Zook. Dave, | will unmute you. Yeah, George. Good.
Dave. It was great. It was great seeing you in Dallas, | thoroughly enjoyed you down there.
And | hope you had as much fun as | did. | had a lot of data. Good time. Good. So a
question for you a lot of the business that that | do. | do it with partners. And so | have a
self storage team, really good partners. | got a multifamily team. I've got an ATM team.
And so a lot of the success in any one of those asset classes has to do with how well my
my partners perform. So | was curious to see what were some of the things that you did, or
the Trump team did to vet a, say a joint venture partner or somebody that they were
getting into deal with? Like, wnat should somebody do to really vet those partners and
your experience? Yeah. And he said, Well, first of all, as far as the Trump team is he didn't
do many joint ventures, he though the whole thing or nothing where or franchise
franchises out where they did everything, and he was good, tangentially involved, not
really true partnership arrangements. But as far as my partnership or otherwise, the main
thing is, is what these partners bring to the table, each one looks different. You know, we
talk to somebody on a new multi development, multifamily develooment as against some
spending, self storage, the two different one is a business. And the other one is a is a total
operation, you know, residential buildings. So we, the partner, whoever you are, whoever
you department has to add something to the partnership, what basically, are they going
to add, maybe they're going to attach, maybe you're going to add expertise, you got to
basically get the partner that's going to help fill you in the particular gap, you got too
many different businesses, and you have to be the pickup partners that go matches to
help you help you in those particular business. You're saying now, luxury, vacation
property development is entirely different than multifamily development. Ordinarily, so
but there, you get a partner that's in there that's done it this got some experience where
he then had or has the contact to get these to get those things done. So it's really you
know, being careful as to which partner you pick for which development you can, one size
doesn't fit all. And in my case, almost all of them are the operator like they're, they're the
operator they're bringing the deal the tables, they're, they're the ones that are making the

making a work and then we come alongside and and partner with them. And
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

produce, and you're terminating it because it's to your benefit, not that they've done

something wrong, then they're entitled to a better deal. Yep.

12:46

So George, I've got a question related to this. And it’s a structural question in this scenario
that Dave is describing, if his partner is also a cosigner on the bank debt, and therefore, if
you fire that individual, there’s potentially a structural change that could trigger the due

on sale clause on that loan.

13:06

Doesn't it create almost like, what do you mean to do on sale clauses if that guy goes out?

Correct? Yeah. If there's a structural change

iiZ

to sell it, yeah. But what destructive change within the partnership? That's not that's
unusual?

13:18

Oh, | see it in most loan agreements, that if the if the ownership structure changes, that's

almost equivalent to a sale?

13:24

Well, | don't know where they where it came from. | haven't seen that too, too often at
that point. Otherwise, you'd agree with it. Otherwise, you didn't really change the
structure of what are the point? What happens if one of the partners dies? Does that does
that terminated the loan?

Isto

It not if they're a limited partner, but if their general partner, then that might do that? So |
guess, in this particular instance, what you're almost saying is that Dave should at least be

considered a general partner alongside the other partner as a general partner?
JO

JO

jo

JO

JO

05:08

That's a very fair point. That's a very fair point. And so, you know, there's a whole
spectrum of possibilities, including, we could say to the landowner, okay, give us 90 days
to raise the capital to buy you out. And then we'll recapitalize the project, maybe with a

conventional loan, or maybe even with a new HUD application

05:25

he made | who probably | don't know that he wants to get bought out does he?

05:30

Think he does, he’s he's at an age right now where he's not necessarily looking to, you

know, do another project. Okay, just as happy to just sit on the cache.

05:40

Okay. And that's, that's all right, getting the GO GO the 90 day route, good to go the 90
day route, get the 90 day delay, he got plenty of time. If If it doesn’t work out, within 90
days, you will ask them what time they maybe give him a baby, give him some cash to
hold him quiet for a while. You got all kinds of possibilities delay? | don't see any major
problem at this particular time. Let's say that's that’s critical. It's there on the horizon, but

it's not critical now.

06:05

Yeah, that makes perfect sense. Now, obviously, | mean, from from our standpoint, we
definitely see a sense of urgency. | mean, the thing that one of the things that triggered
the problems, we had a quarter point rate increase, which unfortunately, the way the loan
was structured, it ended up reducing the loan amount, normally a quarter point entries,
quarter point increase shouldn't break a project. But in Unfortunately, this case, it only
appears to what a point increase was raised by HUD was Yeah, well, it was tied to the
quarter point Federal Reserve rating. So Okay, next to that. Okay. And of course, the Fed
is announced another two to three rate hikes this year, so we don't want to wait too long. |
understand. Okay. Okay. Usually with that. Oh, that’s great. Very good. Okay.
_)O

JO

jo

to do from Austin, Texas, least in the United States. | don’t know what it is in Canada, but
you do here. So he here at that point, | put a certain amount of money into a foundation
into my foundation, and | get the benefit of my taxes. And the point really is you're entitled
to do that. But there's limited based on your income. Otherwise you can't take you can't
take a lot of your income. Right now. It’s a certain percentage of the income. But then the
money's in my in my foundation. | can give to any recognized charity that take the 503 C
or something like that. So it’s so | don't have to worry about that as long as they are
recognized charity and they can do anything they want. Those who recognize charity,
they can help blind people or kids or anything. They don't they have to live by the rules
and explain what they did with the money. was the person that's giving it giving money to
them does not have to do that.

45:04

Right? Right. But you use our advantage by creating your own foundation.

45:08

Yes, yes. But understand if you got to go to create, if you go to the build go the other
route, what you say the paperwork is monumental and the organizational capacities are
monumental. Now, it’s not easy, by any means. To set it up, and you have to indicate what
you are you have to keep good records as the way you said to to and what it is, and then
do perform the this particular service. Now, they would have to agree that that's a
charitable cause. You can't give money to your brother in law, for example, right. But there
are plenty of companies who lawyers at that point does specialize in this or whatever. And
| would certainly or tax tax counsel in the tax rate and tell me what you have in mind. And

they'll come up with what they think the solution ought to be. Okay, very good.

Robert 45:57

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com. Make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind. Successful
syndicating a syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly
George Ross mastermind.

46:18

The next question. This is from a conversation that | was having with sia earlier. Today, co
_)O

_)O

JO

JO

JO

the project to try and help, you know, see if we could rescue this situation. Dave zoek, who
you met in Dallas a few weeks ago, Dave, and | raised the capital to rescue the project.
And then as we were about to rate lock, with HUD, the interest rate went up. And the way
that the loan was structured, it actually reduced the loan amount, because it became debt
coverage limited, as opposed to, you know, affecting, you know, simply affecting the cash
flow. And so it's kind of left us with a few options. Number one is to sell the project to
another developer who might want to take it over. Number two, try and raise the capital
for land, and then, you know, recapitalize it and do the project at a later time ourselves
with a different financing structure. Or number three, walk away and accept that my
partner is going to lose about 1,000,002 that he's put into the project. What are your

thoughts? Trying to do anything on a very short timeline is always very difficult.

02:16

Well, what makes you think that the land partner is likely to pull the project by April 30?
What's so critical about April 30?

02:22

| think he was he's losing confidence that this will ever get done. He's held on to

02:28

it. But that’s not because then it’s not critical. But why we why April 30? What happens if
it's, if it’s not April? 30? May 15? Sir,

02:35

question. fair question. So you're saying negotiate with with the land partner,

02:40

land partner, the lead partner, | think if you spoke to the land partner, and basically tell
them what happened, the basic and then as you're arranging to cover it, to cover the
deficit, do things either you have to give additional collateral Tod, in which case, you will
increase the loan to value the loan to value ratio, or at that point, you have to have to put
up some more money. But meanwhile, timewise, it’s so good. | mean, certainly, you're

towing him the effectively, the Hatton in Houston, it’s an active garden, what have you, |
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

18:05

correct. Okay, absolutely. Right. So you have a parent and you have these subsidiaries,
but the subsidiaries are self contained, and they have their own guideposts. The same
thing is one of the things is that if the subsidiary is over performing, they're entitled to get
more compensation, even if the parent is not over. Boy, if they're doing a good job in what
they're doing. And they're proceeding and they got better bonuses, they can expect to get
the more money, alright. And that tied to the parent, the same, the opposite also applies.
If the parent is doing great, and they're not, they're not entitled to the extra

compensation.

18:43

And what about when you need one side of the business to subsidize another one

because it’s not performing at least on a temporary basis?

18:50

Well, that's what that’s that's the parent, that's a management call parent has to decide
what they want to do with the individual businesses not performing that easily. So we
want to sell it we want to keep it or what have you. But that’s the that always goes on
when any parent company at this point has a problem with a subsidiary, they can either
almost two years or at that point they can just wipe do we terminate the subsidiary go
and go out of business as far as the subsidiary is concerned without this without affecting
the parent. So that's it’s separate and distinct. The parent could basically have basically
will have control over the subsidiary but the subsidiary has to perform and its

performance will judge what the parent does with it.

19:31

That makes perfect sense. That makes perfect sense. It's easy when you describe it in the
context of a larger company. And then to take that back and apply it let's say you know if
we have a port any any individual investor has a portfolio and you know, this entity over
here is a 20 unit building and that other entities are 40 unit building and this other one's a

six Plex get those to perform on their on a standalone basis.

19:55

Absolutely. Absolutely. Is it a standalone basis. You probably can't mixing them up
Die)

JO

JO

because six family in one location can do very well in the six family in another location do
poorly. So it's not judging them all together, you have to do each one on a separate basis.
So that it can be tested could be guided and honest performance in its particular location
or its marketplace. That's that's the you're on the upside of the downside, it's not
performing as well, they get penalized if they are performing otherwise, they're entitled to
get better benefits. But it's not generally what's going on with the parent. It’s still going it
really is specific to the subsidiary how that's performing adds to the function they are

basically supposed to be performing. That makes sense. You know, it's

20:39

interesting, john Brock, who | think, you know, john Brock, and | owned a bunch of
buildings on the same block in Chicago, we own four buildings, they're each within their
own separate entity. And generally speaking, the tenant base was the same and so on.
But we try as we might, we could not get those four buildings to perform identically, and
one of them consistently over performed, and it wasn't the one we expected. And we had
another one that consistently underperformed, and that wasn't the one we expected

either.

21:04

And it was, yeah, that's true. That's what | that's real estate. That's all it do, you know,
each piece is separate and distinct, and will operate separate into things. And even
though this, they could be side by side, you know, they're not they're not the same and

they don't operate the same way. So, but that's the nature of the business deed.

Robert 21:24

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind, if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind. Successful
syndicating a syndication memory club. It's time for another edition of the monthly

George Ross mastermind.

21:45

Okay, next, we have a question from Vincenzo in terms of unmute you here. Okay. Are you
there?
Ollee

PC+-+March+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

@ Fri,9/31:33PM = @ 52:52

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

project, partner, point, perform, money, property, problem, building, question, parent, george, case,

entity, benefit, negotiate, create, business, individual, agreement, sales

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:05

JO

So welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross.
George, as you know, of course work for Mr. Trump for much of the past 40 years in
business for over 60 years. Author of two best selling books, taught at the law school at
NYU for over 20 years an expert in negotiation in business over 60 years. We're delighted
to have you with us, George and as always, make sure you take copious notes. Let's jump
right in. Okay, great. So towards the first question is one specifically on a project that I'm
dealing with this is a 260 unit new apartment complex in Houston, it has a HUD approved
construction loan, that's due to expire in 30 days, you know, these loans are put in place
that are only valid for a certain amount of time. And the project was delayed due to
Hurricane Harvey. And now more recently, the funding source who had committed the
cash to the cash contribution didn't deliver. The land partner who's been involved in the
project, since its inception is likely to pull the land out of the project, if it doesn't fund by
the end of April. And that would mean that the developer who put all of this together and
spend about 1,000,002, and soft costs would lose all of that. And so he brought me into
JO

JO

JO

29:59

Can you give An example of how you might use the granting of an easement to create a
hidden asset.

30:04

Well, the granting of an easement depends on it depends on where you are in location
where the particular piece of property is. But in the event that you ever say that you have
a piece of property and the the adjacent owner, and the adjacent owner attorneys hasn't
the other piece of property, and they need some kind of you needs additional parking,
he's predictable parking, either comply with zoning or to make his property better. So you
give them these ones who create the the parking. So it could be a perpetual easement
could be on on an annual basis. And at least it could be lots of ways of doing it. But
certainly, that's a anytime that you give somebody the right to use your property for their
advantage. That's, that could be helpful. And that doesn't have to be perpetual, it could
be over a period of years, but good. But it could definitely enhance the value of the
property. One of the things you could all go do on occasion is, suppose they have a side
restriction that they can't be more than, like a building can be more than the than 10 feet
from the or 20 feet from the property line. And then you give them the right at that point
to move the property line so that they can extend their building where they didn't have it

before. There are two ways but that these are unusual, not not everyday situations.

31:26

No, | think this conversation is fantastic. I'm definitely going to go back and listen to the
recording probably three or four times and | think there probably will be situations where
something in this conversation will will sour some creative juices to make something
available. That wasn't before. Okay, good. That's what we were totally here for. That's

wonderful.

Robert 31:48

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you
get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind. Successful
syndicating a syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly

George Ross mastermind.
JO

09:42

then if you've got somebody doing that, what do you what you what your concern is the
one I'm bringing investors capital and yeah, and so I'm sort of leveraging my relationship
or my I'm relationship. I'm leveraging my relationship with investors bringing their cash to
the table. And hooking up with these operators. Okay, now | will go through basically the
cause of a case, what happened, how it happened, what's what's the agreement do do to
get rid of the operator and event, they don't perform clauses we do have some of that in
place with, like in the case of my multifamily team, | can fire them. And at that point |
would, | would have to buy him out well, so you will fire him, but you buy him out at that
point, if they don't pursue this point, buy him up or buy him out on terms that are good for
you. Yeah, if you're firing somebody because they're incompetent, or they don't do
something, and you felt we were built into the agreement, whatever the the landmarks
are to, in order to fire on a good procedure, and you should be penalized as a result of
that you buy him out over a period of time. But that's not to kill the deal. They shouldn't,
they shouldn't do something wrong, they you should be forced into a position because
they've done something really wrong. That's not that's not the way you should not be
penalized in the event, you're, you're terminating for cause, if you're terminating, if you
have a right to terminate, not for cause that's a different then you're doing it because you
want to do it. But if a terminated for cause, because they didn’t produce, that's a different
ballgame. So you have to set some guidelines with milestones, other how that
performance is going to be judged to a certain percentage a certain return over a period
of time, what the what the net income is, given do that. But that’s what you have to do
when you set up basically the agreement when you put in the cash. Now, one thing is, well,
you got the strongest position, you know, he would decay, the he would the gold makes
the rules and simple as that, and they need your cash. So you can now put but I’m not
saying to do anything, that's, that's improper, putting unless you're entitled to some
reasonable protections, which they will agree to. Yeah. So if you blend factions in the
agreement, then you're pretty good shape, you probably will never have to use them. But
if you have to use them, then because there's this deficiency by the the present operator
owner, then so be it, that’s what you have to do. So it only comes into play in the event,
they haven't done something they've agreed to do. That makes sense, always assume
some kind of control to the to the point that you can fire them or hold them accountable.
You know, not give up all the control to the other direction. But there's a difference when
you fire them at this point, if you're firing for cause where they've done something wrong
at that point. That's it. That's one, one set of facts, and that's your title at that point you're
filing for cause you should come out, okay. In other words, they’re not entirely firing for so
they done something wrong. They're not entitled to to any real, tremendous help or
getting a lot of cash or something like that. But because if they triggered it, on the other

hand, if you if you have the right to terminate for any reason, or something, or they don't
JO

JO

21:53

I'm here. Okay. What's up? |, George. Hi, how you doing? Don't feel great. What's with you?
What are we doing? Oh, and it's been just enjoying the beautiful weather out here in
Edmonton, Alberta. It's just nice and snowy. So what can we do here? So the industry
standard wall street model for investment funds is a small measuring fee of 2%. And that
20% carried interest for the general partner when dealing with passive investors who
have experience with that model? How do we just find different structure like a 7030? Ora
5050? Well, | said it’s a very good question. But basically this is this the fact that you're
talking to industry standard model, that's bullshit. You know, that can say, that's, that's
what the terms that a negotiator uses when he doesn't want to negotiate. Then he says,
This is the industry standard, though this is what's done in the industry, and therefore you
have to so it’s 6%. But that, no, that’s open for negotiation. So that's that, get away from
that that kind of concept of being being a man. And that they were the management gets
only 2%. And 20% carried interest to the general partner? No, it depends on the
transaction. It depends on the real estate, what's involved, there's no you know, read, you
can't pay more, you can't do more to get this with this. So building standards, that doesn't
apply. As always, it's it’s a concept, but it's a good concept for anybody who wants to take
advantage of the concept. That's all it is. ln other words, you say, yeah, that's just the
Yeah, | mean, you take brokerage commissions? Is that what the broker gets a commission
like a 6%? That standard in the industry? Do you want to how many commissions it
negotiated down to 4% 3%? Four and a half depends on the transaction, and depends on
the function of the product, particularly the party, whether whatever they're doing, so
don't be afraid to negotiate? Now, you'll get our agrees it did. | think, to me, the 20% is
very low that 5050 doesn't that doesn't work. | think that's too high. But nevertheless, 20%
also, at that point, you can have that the percentage auto increase depending upon how
successful the project is. So if somebody is adding value to the project management or
what have you, then maybe the percentage ought to go up, and he could build in into the
agreement of some formula for that. In other words, what Thomas's the the passive

investor get

24:19

so George, what's your preference? And when it comes to something like that you prefer
to use prefer to play with percentages or implement things like a waterfall model that
says, No, the investor gets their capital back, then | get a developer fee, then we split the
percentage, you know, on on a percentage basis, like of course anything's possible, but at
a certain point, it becomes difficult to understand and to wrap your mind around what

how do you approach this?
JO

JO

JO

13:51

Correct? Correct. He's a general partner alongside the other partners, both general
partners have gone into Coca Cola room, but not sure. Yeah, and that is the case. You
know, we're always considered a general partner. And typically, there’s something in you
know, in our agreement, like, you know, such and such happens, or if they don't perform or
something like that, you know, | have the right to farm and, and, you know, we can move
on to another management team. So, you know, we try to put as much protection there as
we can, that's good. That's what you need. That's fine. That’s exactly what you need. And
as long as, as long as there is a reasonable degree of notice. We, | think, have an
opportunity to cure whatever the default is. You give them reasonable notice, though, and
send them out right away. If you basically paper whatever your complaint is, then you got
a better view, then you boy successful if you have to enforce that agreement, because you
didn't just throw merrily throw them out. You're basically gave up | noticed they didn't

perform. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome.

Robert 14:54

That's great. There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind, if you've
got a question for George Just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com
make sure you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind.
Successful syndicating a syndication mentoring club. It's time for another edition of the

monthly George Ross mastermind.

15715

Okay, so next, George in a growing portfolio. In certainly in our case, we have multiple
entities that are created with each individual real estate project. And the question is, how
do we decide when to hire a person within the parent organization versus hiring them
within that project specific entity. So for example, because really, all of the revenue is
coming from those project specific entities, the the parent company doesn't derive a lot of
revenue directly. So we often have situations where we have a single resource where their
contribution is going to be spread across several projects. How would you recommend
that we find that position? Should we have crossed contracts between the parent

organization and the leaf organization? Or, you know, what are your thoughts?

16:02

Well, yeah, it could have, uh, depends on what the what the what basically the function is,
JO

JO

JO

Die)

think, | don't think | have a problem. That's a very fair point. That's, | don't think he’s going
to pull it. But certainly, if he did, at that point, you got plenty of notice. And you could stop
it and call him back to go. There's so many things you can do that what you're suggesting
basically is premature. The date is not. | don't see that for what he's saying the data is
critical, except you're saying he’s losing confidence in a transaction, whether it's going to
happen, but that's confidence. You could we could because of what happened in Houston.
That was basically the delay in the create greater problems, but it looks to me like the

thing will be solved over a period of time.

03:47

That's actually a very fair point. completely fair point. | mean, what you're saying is, you
know, there's a distance between losing 1,000,002. And then, you know, maybe even
taking a portion of that million two and giving it to the landowner, you still walk away with
a much better scenario?

04:03

Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. But | think you can negotiate with the landowner at this
based on everything that happened. To me, that looks like a no brainer, it's relatively
simple, because how can you say it didn't happen? That's great. a code of gradient is a
laser. And | think that you can certainly buy some more time from him enough to cover

your problem.

04:26

| think, | think you're, you're looking at it the right way. And we're we weren't

04:33

| love it. | certainly would walk away from the project that doesn't make any sense and
raise the capital of buy the land, the buy the land. That's you can do when you see what
happens, like boiled down the pike. The landowner hasn't taken any affirmative action to
create a way to create any kind of crisis. So effectively, | think you're premature and figure
in facing problems which yet do not exist or will probably won't exist. | think it's big To the
landowner, you tell them, everything goes on and knew by June, he told me you just need
more time, which is really what you do.
JO

JO

JO

wouldn't offend them at that point. |

39:11

think | think at that point, | think he's entitled to it | think you're if he's if he’s doing the
service and he's doing political connections to this waste of time will be separately
compensated. He's not you're not doing that as a broker. He's doing it because of his case
connections and helpful. So | see no, you know, | see where you're coming from, but |
wouldn't negotiate it was one of these things Japan, you pay him and you say thank you,
when he gets into what he doing, he delivers it. So it's not a you know, it's something that
you can do if we're going to negotiate it earlier. Fine, but he didn't unless you tell from
what I'm hearing from what you're telling me. He's furnishing a specific service that you
that you need, right. Want it so and distort. | never objected to people making money

because they Perform a special surface.

40:01

And same here. And same here. And now this is an area that it's next. Well, it’s this one's
our little uncharted territory for me. So | guess the question is for, you know, for someone
performing engineering services and something like that, that’s easy to understand. But
what what is it? How much have you how much you paying for the consulting service?
Well, we haven't arrived at a number about what | that’s what | we haven't, we haven't

even

40:26

arrived at a number. Okay. That's all No, | wouldn't do open enter by any means. But now
he's, you know, he's not opera, you're not as a broker, you're operating in now as a
representative, a local representative in the political arena, or what have you. Yes, he's
entitled to something for that. But and then at the time, when you negotiate how much
you're going to pay, you can come back and say, Hey, you know, what you made that |
didn't negotiate with you when you took a 6% fee. At that, a lot of brokers taking less
presents, oh, | pay you more there. So you shouldn't hit me so hard on this one. So | would
negotiate going forward, that you're entitled to some kind of a discount because of what

you didn't do in the past. Okay. Okay, fair enough. Okay. Okay.

Robert 41:10

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
JO

JO

for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com. Make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind. Successful
syndicating a syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly

George Ross mastermind. Next,

41:32

we've talked about philanthropy quite a bit over the years, George, and | know you sit on
the board of a couple of different foundations. And there's a number of different models
for helping a good cause, you know, one is to raise the money directly and do the heavy
lifting to help that in project and other ways simply to raise money for an existing
foundation. or third, to raise money within your creative, separate Foundation, whose sole
purpose is to support an another existing Foundation, do you have any thoughts on the
merits of the different approaches, and in particular, there's a particular cause that that
I'm passionate about, and this is the idea that there are millions, | mean, literally millions
of people in the world today who are blind for for whom that can be corrected for like 125
bucks. And there's an organization out of the UK called sightsavers, there's a flagged
down version of that in the in the US, there isn't one in Canada yet. I'd like to do

something to help them. Any thoughts on how to how to structure this

42:35

structure is when you get to philanthropy, if that becomes difficult, especially the United
States, | don't know whether it’s the same in Canada. But in in the United States, if you
want to be if you want to be you want to set up a foundation of philanthropy that’s going
to help individuals, specifically Roy's pursue it go, he can give money to all kinds of people
that need it, but not a an organized charity. It's the restrictions are monumental, those
any money that you put into that, at that point, you have to explain where it went. So if
you gave those scholarships, or whatever, you have to prove the first need is very
cumbersome. So generally speaking, | mean, | didn't even go for it, | saw what the
restrictions were and what you had to do. | said no. So basically, however, | said no, but
you can give to, if you set up your foundation, where a charitable organization, you can
give money to another charter blue organization that has the benefit of the taxes, and
that has the benefit of it can, it's been set up to give money to wherever it wants. So if
there is another entity that would give money to the blind to, to fund for an operation or
what have you, for blind people, and that is a recognized charity, then you can certainly
give money to that charity. So you set up your own foundation, you get money, so that
charity, and it's a deduction that's perfectly legitimate. And whatever it is, you you, you

get benefits. When you put money into a foundation, you get a you get a benefit at that
JO

JO

JO

Robert 36:57

there's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com. Make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind. Successful
syndicating a syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly
George Ross mastermind.

37:18

Okay, so next next question is, is about negotiation. And this is one that is actually in our
specific business, but | think it’s one that probably most people on the call can relate to.
And it's a negotiation question, we have a specific case where we have a broker who
earned his full 6%. commission, he double ended the deal on the purchase of two
properties. And in the case of the first property, he assisted with consulting and getting
our zoning approval, prior to closing, so we got we went into the transaction, or already
with the zoning approval. In the case of the second property, he's asking for additional
compensation in exchange for his consulting services, even though he already made 120
grand in Commission on that property. So he’s made almost a quarter million dollars off of
us this year alone. And he's now you know, he's told us that property with the
understanding that we're buying it for that specific purpose. So it's not it’s not a surprise
that we're going to be buying for what specific purpose in this particular case, it’s for the
medical office building that we've been talking about. Uh huh. So now he's asking for

additional compensation. Now, he's enormously What did he do what what?

38:2/

What consulting services he is he performing on the second property,

38:30

he he's actually going to go around and lobby each of the individual city council
members, he used to be a state representative. So he's extraordinarily well connected.
He's going around talking to each of the individual city councilors, make sure they're on
board, he'll actually present the project in front of the zoning board and at City Council, if
it goes in front of council, extraordinarily influential. He’s very good. You know, so | have
no issue with him doing the work. | mean, he's just, He's the perfect person. The part that's
giving me heartache is the fact that he’s coming now after the fact and saying, What are

you gonna pay me to do this work? And | certainly don't want to offend him, and |
