JO

JO

JO

valuable, and it’s so valuable that people pay that the Trump Organization just to put the
brand on the building. And I've been thinking about that a lot lately. We're not there yet.
But we currently have just for the current properties, different LLCs that own different
packages of properties. But the tenants don't see the LLC, they just see LLC one OC two,
whatever be they just see the property management companies names. And we've
structured that just for asset protection. Do you think it makes sense for for an investor to
kind of think in terms of how Trump is doing it have a central common brand? properties?

tenants was shopping around. Okay,

92:30

absolutely. No, you can build you can build a brand. You can build a brand through rental
properties. That's it. I've seen it with works apps Absolutely. Doesn't matter if it's more
than the ordering. In New York, for example, in New York, | had a client, his name was
Leonard liquid. And he built apartments in all over Midtown, Midtown Manhattan, good
builder, very good. A flooring company called Glenwood management. Alright, and knew
anyone and he had maybe 30 or 40 buildings under Glenwood met all of the bidet Boyd
woods, people would go in there because it was a Glenwood management building. So
built in built the name, they knew what to expect. That's the same as you know, what you
build, you build, build your brand, that’s fine. You build a brand that you do something
that uniform or and interesting. People will go because that's the brand, though. This is
what Trump did when there's when it was a Trump building. They bought it they bought
the condo sold because the name Trump had had was the luxury. Absolutely. You can
market to a good market, the ownership and the operation. And don't don't all the hotels
do that. Essential Britain often does. Is it what HIA does the market your market your
reputation? It's not a it’s not this specific building in this specific location is the fact that it
has their name, and that you can expect certain things to occur as a result of it’s there.

They're under their name. Great idea. It does work.

54:04

The second part of the question though, so all those brands are high end brands. So would
would you still would you still make the same recommendation if it’s on the lower income
side of the spectrum? | didn't get the question. So we're not doing like hotels or Class A

properties these are more low income, low income renters.

94:25

Okay, so | understand this but no, there is no lip saying there's a there's a lid for every pot
JO

JO

JO

JO

and it doesn't make a difference with the with the property the nature of the property is
low income, middle income, high income, major size units minor size, there is a market
there and you market to that particular that elements to particular element that
generative in that market. So if you get you get you're known for repeat Did you did you
build buildings your rent space out for a certain size certain dollar amount in Ordinary.
And that’s what you're known for. And people will come to you for that. You're not going
to get the Did somebody else different, which is a Pacific market. | know it's a market for
ones that want low income, they want rental at low income, but they'll have to low
charge. But they know it’s not going to be in the US in the prime prime area because
camping, but it’s got to be good value because of what it is and where it is. So I'd say
yeah, it'll be good for what it is and where it is not necessarily that they can't command
the same amount if it were in a different location. It does what they use great idea What
does work. And don't i don't think it has to be high priced or anything. It's just whatever it

is, you can market anything if you market it properly.

55:41

So for example, just to give a concrete example, at every Ritz Carlton, maybe the floors in

the bathroom or heated SAP and your properties, maybe every bedroom has a ceiling fan.

Doz

Doesn't whatever you push, whatever it is, whatever it is, whatever is going to sell it.
Absolutely. Whatever the pluses are, it's a school it could be the process could be the
school, the district transportation, the low taxes, whatever, whatever it is, you push the
good things and hide the ones that are terrible. That's surfer three lifestyle is reselling real
estate. Okay, |

56:14

think what true are we Yes, we are. Thank you, George. And

56:18

you're welcome. Very good. Very good call. So the keeping comment right on. Absolutely.
gap. Talk to you again next month. Have a great evening, everyone. You too have a good
holiday. Good New Year and not a holiday the holidays over Exactly. Okay, can | go on?
JO

jo

JO

number of rooms on the for their for the help over a per year walk run conventions. So as
you get a you know, pre selling of the facility that | liked that idea a lot. Yeah. And that
might be something that they would go for, if they have to conventions, where you have
pre periodically say to say, how many, how many meetings do you have? Well, we have
three a year, okay. How many people in 400 people will have a good time, it is great to
have the freedom here, we'll give you a special price and tie it up that way. If you've got
enough commercial in the area, which we do, | know the area well, it's got a lot of good
curvature. And they may, they may like very well have the idea to have all of the people in
one place easily and quickly without having to go through the normal hotel chains and tie
him up for that period of time and go through the contract arrangements. With or without
hotel chains, so where I'd rather have it now in my backyard. But it's a facility, which
would be there primarily as a convention center for the surrounding area and the

commercial in the area, as distinct from having vacation. Oh, yeah, absolutely.

40:19

Absolutely. | mean, you've got all the data centers for Merrill and all the other brokerage
houses in New Jersey, they're on Wall Street anymore. They're all you know, Somerset,

New Jersey area.

40:30

Yeah, | know. Yeah. So it's no, it’s got it’s good. It's got good. It's got, potentially it’s got
good, good pocket possibilities. But | see a lot of drawbacks. But | wouldn't be as
concerned about when you're talking to ceiling heights, if you can't get people in, who
cares how high the ceilings are. So it's not it’s not going to be it can't see it being a luxury
facility, | can see it being a necessary facility where you have clean rooms and services,
from hotel services, which are available to the people that are occupying the convention
center for the period of time that they're there. And it could be a good plus for really a

commercial enterprise in the area. | can see that.

41:17

The other idea that | had, and I've not discussed this with Josh at all, when he first
brought this to me was you know, it's a large four plate. It's two levels. So I'm guessing it's
50,000 square feet per level, which is a huge floor plate. What about the idea of

repurposing it as as an office? You don't have a lot of perimeter?
JO

JO

JO

JO

It's something that was there that was unknown. Now it's an owned, but when you say
lead pay, that doesn't mean that is that is terrible. It has to be corrected, but doesn’t mean
that it Do you know that somebody died or got cancer is a result of this? And even then
you did you know it? So it's a it's one of these, these tough ones that has to be resolved.

But | think you're doing the best you can with it. | don't see a problem.

17:27

Okay. With with the tenant opting. | mean, if it was me, | would just personally | wouldn't

stay in the house, | would | would go to a hotel, but it's their decision to stay in there.

17:40

That's all that's fine. Okay, just want to stay in there at that point, knowing that they've
got a lead in the pipes. that's their problem. That's their concern. And that's not a credit.

It's not terrible, as long as they don't use the water.

17:51

So | guess the question, the question is, so since they're electing to stay there, and you've
offered them the opportunity to stay elsewhere, that would actually be the opportunity to

get them to sign a waiver. And a hold harmless waive? No,

18:09

| wouldn't, | wouldn't get them. No, | wouldn't ask them to sign a waiver, you ask them to
sign a waiver, you're gonna have a problem, then they're gonna say what am | doing to
get lead? They'll get lawyers involved or what have you. So | wouldn't do | wouldn't take
that route. You've done everything you can to say, Hey, we understand this situation. And
we're we're doing what we were trying to make it right so that we can both be happy with
a bad situation. We have to we have to create the lead the lead and you were just born
out of a situation where you can occupy the apartment in the normal bed and we'll try to
we'll try to work it out between us. | think you're going in the right direction you're doing
fine. | wouldn't wouldn't ask for a waiver or anything to get lawyers involved that becomes
that becomes a sticky thing. So it was it was having a good lawyer they're going to say
well what happens at this is that the lawyer is going to pay that the the son who has
drank the water all of a sudden comes up with some kind of cancer which they're going to

say for lead poisoning so if you try to say we'll give you a waiver they don't want to give
JO

JO

JO

36:04

yeah, that's | know, the area, the area is fine. The area is fine. But the question, but
certainly you can contact or have a broker work on somebody, and you'll be asked to
contact Hilton, Hilton, or contact, Marriott, contact the Chicago dotnet with Hyatt and
say, will you have an interest? To give them all the information and say this? Would you?
Would you be interested in it and franchising it or running it? or what have you, and let
them make an evaluation? What they would do, if they're looking, if you had a hotel chain
is looking into it, is they will make an evaluation? They'll look at it and they'll do they'll get
the democratic the demographics of the whole area? Well, what's what's the who's going
to occupy the hotel? How many if you had the hotel? Who would go there, there isn't
really a good Convention Center, a convention site where you're going to have people or
is there just a one shot? Deal? Are people going to go there on vacation? Or is it going to
be a business hotel? All of these companies will do the hotel, they will do their own site
evaluation. And they do the site evaluation. Yeah, it works. It doesn't work. And you come
out accordingly. My gut reaction is that this is a tough, this is a bitch. This is tough. When |
say it's tough. It’s it's not when you tell me it's 60 miles away from somewhere. That 60
miles whose goodbyes will be 600 miles. No, you're not it was but what we got in the air.
You got gambling? What have you got golf resorts? What? What's the attraction to bring
people to the hotel other than there's a convention going on? Right? That right, but a
convention going on in hotel, all you need is rooms if there’s rooms. So somebody's got
somebody being engaged to make a site evaluation on this and tell you the feasibility of
doing it. And then you could contact or broker or contact all of these riscaldamento?

Would you be interested in it? To put your name on it?

38:19

Yeah, sir, to run it, certainly, as part of the, as part of the due diligence, you know, we'll be
getting a semester report to get all the local metrics on occupancy and average daily rate
and all the rest. Yeah. Now, it's not directly off to 87. So, you know, be one thing, if it was
right off the exit of a major of a major Interstate, but it's not it's kind of tucked away a
little bit. So to your point, that it's not quite on on the beaten path. Definitely is a strike
going against it, the fact that the property has some structural problems with it is another
strike going against it.

38:58

Yeah. And | would say also, you got these if you got these companies in the area, at that

point, maybe you have to get them to participate. So the deal agreed to take certain
JO

JO

JO

28:20

| think you just say, here's what I'm planning on doing. And which it could be a separate
separate deal doesn't have to be part of the partnership. We're just doing deals on your
own. In other words, you say, Hey, here’s our partnership, we got DLA | now have a new
deal is coming in. But it doesn't fit within the partnership, the deal partners, your baby still
sits but now I've got my own transaction, or multiple transactions in which you are not
involved. And the same thing on the other side, he can have multiple transactions, which
are not involved. Because there's a difference in investing philosophy, the degree of
security, where it is and so forth. So everybody, they can go their separate way as long as

there is disclosure and an opportunity to participate if you want to participate.

29:04

Okay, well, that makes a lot of sense. And just one follow up question to that. | mean, you
know, in in property, you obviously build economies of scales as you continue to do more
and more projects, economies of scale on the property management, how would you
handle a situation where you want to utilize existing systems going forward, whether a
partner wants to do you know, in on your new deal or not? You have any advice? | mean, in
your law firm? Did you guys ever use the existing systems when you did an independent

deal? Sure.

29:41

Absolutely. We've enjoyed you can use existing systems as a personnel that are that you're
involved with. Yeah, that could be across so the main thing is the the degree of disclosure
so that you're the other party or partner is aware of what you are doing or planning on
doing. And so yeah, I'm in or I'm out. That's the key. If they're out, they're out if they’re in
they're in. But they say you had the opportunity. If it goes right, and they're out, that's
their problem. That's the problem. If it goes lousy under in, that's also the problem. But at
least say, Hey, there was full disclosure. The key is the full disclosure. Guess what? That
makes a lot of sense. Yeah, it works fine. And | can see it at this point, especially where
you have this disparity in ages, and investing philosophy and certainly money. | mean, just,
you know, years ago, | would take a flyer, when | say a flyer does, | would invest in a
property and maybe put in a half a million dollars, and saying, good, it's been two years,
three or five years, either | get back 500 500 million, or | lose the half a million. That's a
flyer. Because it’s the saying, Okay, I'm ready to do it. On the other hand, he's saying, I'm
looking for something that's going to last for 10 to 15 years, and I'll make a 577 percent a

year return on my money and eventually go up. That's security. And it comes in all
Robert 56:37

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio.com make sure you

get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

different sizes and shapes. But the older you get, the less desire you have to take take
flyers. | mean, at my age, | clipped coupons. Gotcha. Thanks, George. | appreciate that
advice was very helpful. Okay, good. I'm glad.

31:30

That was brilliant. Good question. Yeah. It was a great question. Great answer to. Okay.

Next, let's go to to Brad in Maryland. Brad, you can press star six to unmute.

31:42

Hey, Victor, George, thank you very much happy, George. Thank you. Thank you. My
question is, | have an opportunity to purchase a 16 unit apartment building through a
personal connection, the properties for sale because the current owners are going through
a challenging divorce. The problem is I'm located in Maryland, and the property is located
in Oregon a market I'm not really know nothing about. And it might be a good deal. And
I'm not sure yet I'm still evaluating. But my question relates to, you know, how would you
decide this question | wouldn't do. Oh, okay. Fair enough. As simple as that, as simple as
that, if you're too far apart. Okay. What's the matter? You can't find deals in Maryland.
They're all over the place. Oh, no, no, we i'm i've got deals in Maryland to this one just
came to me because of the mutual point and no, not at this point. That is, if you're not
equipped to go into another jurisdiction, don't do it. At this point now, not the it’s not

worth it for if you're telling me, Hey, I’m planning on doing a lot of deals in Oregon. And
this is the first that's one thing we want to do is comes out of left field to pass it. not
worthy. You can't service it. Guys, things you've been go wrong. Too many things can go
wrong. And it’s not a market you're familiar with. Stage a in your particular area. Come on
Merlin's hotter than a pistol go this year. I'm working on it. Now, let me ask you this,
though. On a side note, what would you What would be your threshold to go into a
different market? Where you to where if you don't have to do a thing except give them
money? Where you can invest with somebody who knows what they're doing in that
marketplace? where they've got a track record, and they're not human? Why to be
participant? But basically you're not you're not giving anything except some expertise or
money, but not directly involved? Yes, sir. satisfied that you're doing business with
somebody who knows me knows the area knows the marketplace in that area, not you.
Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much. | appreciate it. You're welcome. Very simple. | love

that. Some good questions. No, | don't Yeah.

33:53
JO

_)O

JO

JO

08:41

if you want to do business in China. Absolutely. And you give the Chinese government a
piece of the action. That was the cost of admission you need to do in China now. And well,
that's the reason you did that. Most of the American cars are not available in China
because the duties were too high. They couldn't come in there, they had to have to give
up too much. But when it comes to some of the some of the products, which we have, you
don't need that the same degree of protection, but it’s it's two different philosophies. Ours
are theirs, and they got in they have to meet on some type of a common ground. But
that's not easy. It's very complex. And this is a step in the right direction but that’s all it is.
From a pure and | my | would anticipate that that when you get to the second step there's
going to be more discussion and argument and they may say well we're not going to
agree to that even though we agree to the first one it’s going to be a lot of negotiation
because that's the nature of their their culture will say negotiate negotiate, negotiate, and

eventually you get it done but it's it’s frustrating as could be.

09:46

One of the things | noticed in the negotiation was the Donald was not afraid to play
hardball in the middle when things look like they were taking too long. He's he doubled
down and said okay, we're gonna increase the tariffs will increase them again. Yeah. Yeah,
that's kind of a

10:02

bold move. That's all. Absolutely, absolutely. You got to say fine, make it hurt, make it here
even more, even though there's a lot of, you know, angsting in the United States with the
farmers and everything in the tariffs are gonna hurt somebody, someone's gonna have to
pay for it, no question about it, or you don't sell the product in in the tool market, which is
China, which is a major market. But that’s what happens. You know, | had said before your
people can tell me Robert Moses had the right though saying, when he said you can't
make an omelet if you won't break the eggs. So this is basically where you are. It's tough,
but they're doing | think the best it could be done under the circumstance. He's strong
enough to do it. He's not afraid. And take all the gas that will come through with with the

politics are involved in the United States. But you can’t make everybody happy.

10:54

You know, it's interesting, because on the one hand, it looks there's this appearance that
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

had a sticky finger with it, or a quick trigger face trigger finger so what? But now guys
know you didn't put didn't answer the question. What is Canada going to do about it?
What is the what are the Kp people in Canada going to do?

13:07

| think they're gonna hold them. What are they? How are they going to handle it? Yeah,

they're gonna hold a memorial service. And that's about it.

1212

That's fine. That's good. That's which, which also the memorial service, and the people in
lran held a memorial service for the year, the guy who was killed, there was assassinated.
Sure, but that’s been while you have a hostile act. | agree that it was accidental. wasn't
intentional. This was somebody that we did. But nevertheless, you now had aa plane, with
Canadian citizens shot out of the sky, in Iran, at the airport, right out of the airport. It
requires some kind of reach some kind of response. | don't know what it is. But it'd be

interesting for me anyway, to see what he's going to do.

13:54

| think if there was to be some form of response, it would have come out by now but so far

there's been now

13:59

so far has been Now what does that tell you? Yeah. That tells you that they don't. They
don't know what to do. That's right. You don't want to you don't want to antagonize you
ran, right. But at this point, because it was that, but nevertheless, you got all these
Canadian citizens, which were which were killed. So what are you gonna do nothing? |
don't know. Just a tough one. But that's your problem or your Canadian problem. I'll be

interested to see what happens. But it’s a property. Agreed.

14:26

Agreed. Fascinating. Okay, well, let's go to some questions from the from the crew here.
CEP Are you on the line but COVID? press star six to unmute SAP from Southern
California. Hey, baby. How are you guys doing? Go good. What's up?
JO

JO

JO

long has this been going on for China with the prior administrations. So you're not talking
about lots of years and lots of administrations did have like read trying to do what they
wanted. And it’s a long time before they suddenly realized, wait a minute, you know,
there's a new kid in town, it's not going to work out and get them to believe it takes on
things it’s hard to do. And | said | think he’s doing the best he can with the with the hand
he was dealt.

07:03

Yeah, that makes sense. Now, in this particular agreement, the question of intellectual
property was kind of put to the side, it wasn't really dealt with very effectively. Is that just

version 2.0? Or is it Are we going to be?

07:16

That would be very good. 2.0? Because it's the title, the question of intellectual property
has many, many facets. They're all called things, old things that are involved, and they
have to be dealt with separately. The question is, what happens now is they if they steal
your your technology, and they don't know Donner, you could never forget, you can
patent anything you want, you never go, you're never going to enforce a patent in China.
Right? They will do what they want. So it's a question I'll be stealing the finished product,
will they stealing the the the technology that went into it, and all kinds of also the
everything else that is going on? It's there are so many variations when it comes to
artificial intelligence and technology, that you have to really step it out and say, Well, this
one will handle that way. And this will what how you can't do it on a broad, broad brush, it
doesn't work. It's too complex. So | think that they realize it, and that they think Okay, so
here's how we're gonna handle First of all, you got to stop stealing our intellectual
property. Which means that you got to have to honor our trade patents or what have you.

That's a big step. They've never done that in the past.

08:25

Well, the other the other part is access to the Chinese market, I've experienced this
firsthand, is that if you want to do business in China, you can you simply don't get free
market access, you have to park no local company, and, and license your technology to

that local company to manufacture correctly
JO

JO

JO

JO

goal go for opposite the best talent obviously good. They're going to produce the best
and absolutely, yep.

49:44

So Nick, they just need to better do something better than 40 Wall Street to earn their
bonus.

AGS?

No, you can't do something better than that. That's a wonders once in a lifetime. Give us
the details. George. Give us Details. What were the details. The details are very simple as
this boy boy, Donald boy, we bought a building that was a million square foot building for
a million dollars dollar per square foot in downtown Manhattan. It was vacant and it
there's no market for it. And had to be totally refurbished that the it was there over a
period of 10 years it went from that to worth 500 million. Wow. So that's a you know, and
then we came on. So yeah, and | basically important in leasing it out and getting tenants
and mortgage a whole bit. And it turned out to be the best decision | ever saw. And when |
told the Donald's Donald, I'm a tech, I'm a title of bonus. And he said what he had in mind,
| gave him a number you can't believe but he said, You got it. Wow. But that’s the one best
deal I've ever seen him, you'll never see another one like that. But it took courage. It took
courage on his part. So you use you're going to build an offer, you're going to hand it in an
office building when everybody tells you that it can't work in downtown Manhattan. You
can't get tenants. And you got to take a building and refurbish it for a lot of millions of
dollars. That takes courage. But you know, that's real estate. That's real estate, if you've
got the courage to do it, and it works, you're going to make a lot. On the other hand, if
you don't, and it doesn't work out, then so be it. That's what makes it makes it attractive
or problems. All right.

BiZo

So next, let’s go back to SAP SAP you had a second question?

51:31

Thanks, Victor extractor. Hey, George. So | said. Second question. Nelson Rockefeller had
a quote he said secret of success is own nothing control everything. And on previous

mastermind calls, you have explained to us how the Trump organization's brand is
JO

_)O

00:36

Well, welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind with George Ross. And
we're thrilled to have you again here again this month, George. And we've got a bunch of
great questions. | can't wait for tonight's call. And let's, let's dive right in. So the first, this
one’s really out of the news may be a little bit of a momentary distraction from all the
impeachment proceedings. We are a year now into the trade negotiations with China.

And it's been a year full of uncertainty, lots of noise about the tariffs, how they've hurt the
economy, and lots of wonder whether the negotiation has even been effective. Now it
looks like we've got at least a partial agreement that’s been reached. And it's kind of an
interesting case study in negotiation, a topic that's near and dear to your heart, for sure.
Yes, true. So as the author of the definitive book on negotiation and Professor of
negotiation at the law school at NYU for close to 20 years, if Donald was in your class, and
the China negotiation was his class project for the year, what would you give them as a

mark for the class project? what went well? What

01:41

didn't? The class project? Yeah, | would give them 100%. In other words, the reason | say |
would give them 100%, is it’s important to know who you're dealing with. And the culture
is very important. I've done lots of deals, not a lot, but I've done quite a few deals with the
Chinese, it's a different culture. It’s a tight you can you can agree on something today, you
can put it in writing, and then the next day, the next day, they'll tell you, they never agreed
to it. Or it's like we never discussed it. They don't tell that backing out or anything that is
not embarrassed. They just say well, let's we have to talk more. So that's the nature of the
culture, they don't like to finish something they'd like to keep talking and see if they can
renegotiate and get a better deal. In this instance, came over, the only reason that they're
talking or they're ready to do it is that the tariffs are working, that the disproportion of
trade balance between the United States and China is so great that the Chinese
ultimately in order for their economy, they have to do, they have to talk. And they have to
do something as reluctant as they are to do it. And it all takes a lot of time and the nature
of the negotiate, they don't care of time. It’s a different philosophy as to how they feel
that's the Asian philosophy. For example, in one of the trade one of the meetings that had
to do in, there was a meeting with the SEC with North Korea and years ago, and Ponyo
Yang. And there was a meeting set up the the Americans had figured the meeting, they
read they set up places, make hotel reservations for seven days, the Chinese made it
performance. Interesting. That's a difference in the philosophy as to how long you think
something's going to get done. So the A, | think everything basically is going through a
period of time, and eventually, you know, reach some kind of an agreement. Why because
it is so disproportionate it's a Chinese benefit. To get these a lot of these tariffs, the tariffs
JO

JO

you a waiver those are protected it creates a whole host of additional problems which |
think you're doing the best you can to resolve it now | think admirably and the tenant to
the got a bad said you got a bad situation you're both trying to do the best you can to
make it work worthwhile and you know you offer to give the tenant a reduction in rent you
have to put them up somewhere they don't want to be they want to be in a hotel they
want to stay apartment fine. But they do that they do at their own risk. Okay. In other
words, you j is and | would definitely somehow without asking him to sign anything say
what you understand the apartment that you're doing that at your own risk understand
you understand now that there is a problem was led into pipes, which obviously they do,
but it's not it’s not something that's it's not horrible. You know, | mean, this is this is not a
toxic city. By itself, just by being there is something that has to be taken care of and
corrected. But it's only been the fact that it’s in the in the pipes. And you stop the lead

poisoning from from going further. Okay,

20:13

what one thing to clarify. So the lead was actually when we did the the testing on the
house, the lead was on the paint, like on the dorsals. It might have also been on the pipes.

But does that change the stance on it? | mean,

20:31

fine, that's it, but if you can mediate it from this point, whatever it is, you can do there you
can really get with the with the lead with the Lowe's lead paint is painted with letter.
That's not so horrible, but you can correct it. Okay, you painted or whatever, it can be
remedied. So that it doesn’t so that it doesn't flake off, or it doesn't create further
problems. Wherever you got it. You got to solve the problem | saw basically, it was in the
pipes. But it may not be telling me now that as far to panic, they use lead paint. Okay. But
that's a understand. And the degree is important. In other words, when you say it tested
positive, what do you mean positive? How far positive? How terrible was, you know,
degrees? Yeah, yeah, good point. Okay. There’s some LEDs in the in the paint. Okay, what
is how much I'm not saying it shouldn't be taken care of or remedy? Because it can be by
repainting, or he sealing it in all kinds of things. But you don't know. From what you're
telling me? | didn't know | don't see how serious it is. And that's right. It’s I'm not saying it
should be ignored. But it may not be as serious as you say sounds serious. But it is not.
This comes in all different shades in all different, but it's like a situation having many
buildings where they haven't where a specialist is there. And later on, it's fine. But once the
wall is opened up, these bestest gets exposed, and now obviously, whoa, now we got

exposed. And that's creates a potential cancer. It’s a problem, which was fine. When | say
JO

JO

JO

find it, nobody knew that it really existed until you did something. And here's a situation
where you know it. How did they find it out? They went to the doctor, right? And the doctor
says, is that lead poisoning? What does that mean? How far was it? How serious is it?
What's the remedy? So it pays to look into it and deal with it appropriately? what you
should be doing? | can't find anything wrong with that. Okay. And but | don't think it to me
it's not from from what I'm hearing. It's not a horrible critical situation. That is saying if the
sun if the sun at that point turned out with lead poisoning, | had gotten cancer as a result
of the lead poisoning. That's a different situation. But just in find a test. | don't know what
the test was and how serious it was, but it certainly pays to look into it. Okay, great. Thank

you. You're welcome. Welcome to the ownership of buildings.

23:06

Yes, indeed. Okay, next, let's go to Hayden in Atlanta. Hidden you can press star six to

unmute

23:16

George. Yeah, went on. Okay, everything's going good. How about you? Hey, man, life is
awesome. So | have a question for you. And | know that you've, you know, you've seen a
lot more in your 92 years, and | have in my 24. So | wanted to get your opinion, because it's
more of a not as clear cut situation. And | think that you've probably seen a lot more of
this than than | obviously have. So | have an existing partnership with a guy who's very
seasoned, you know, has been in real estate a long time. Right, we do good work together,
and | really value the relationship. | also recognize that we're not perfectly aligned in
terms of investment philosophy. | want to find a way to maintain the partnership, but also
have the ability to do projects on my own independent of our partnership. Is there
anything you've seen in this terms, and any advice you can offer us how to approach this?
| don’t damage the partnership and relationship but at the same time, you know, open

myself up to flexibility and do my own projects.

24:24

Yeah, absolutely. And this is, this is not an unusual situation. Especially where's the
diversity on philosophy on investment philosophy, where it becomes a result of age or, or
how much risk that you want to take on a specific investment. And partners can disagree,
but it's relatively simple to solve. So you would the simple sob was either to provide the
either he can do a deal on his own. And you can do a deal on your own. And if he wants to

participate in your deal, he'll give you the right to do it. You'll give him the right to do it.
Olles

PC+-+January+2020+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

qe Thu, 9/91:28PM @ 56:53

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, deal, problem, tenant, property, pay, projects, area, people, china, absolutely, building,

partners, negotiation, canadian citizens, hotel, market, george, lead poisoning, good

SPEAKERS

Robert

© Robert 00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind. Good evening, George. Hi. How are you? Excellent.

O ;
A 00:10

Excellent. Happy New Year. Thank you. You too. Let's hope it's a good one. A lot going on
O ;
A 00:16

price and belated Happy Birthday as well. Thank you so much. | know it starts with a nine.
O .
A 00:22

Yes, it ends with a two. That's wonderful. Yeah, it’s good. Just another year. As long as the

mind is good, everything is okay. Exactly.
_)O

_)O

JO

JO

Yeah, absolutely. Alright, let's go next to Josh in Philly. Okay, Josh, are you there? Don't see
him on the line here. Alright, I'll ask the question for him. So he's negotiating on the
purchase of 100,000 square foot Convention Center. It's currently bank owned. It's about
40 minutes west of the George Washington Bridge in Central New Jersey. It's a little bit
north of Morris town between Morristown and Randolph if you know where that is. And |
know where he's looking to acquire the property, but only if he could build a branded
hotel on the property. And this particular property, it’s got a bunch of problems the the
ceiling heights are way too low for the for the footprint. Some of the spaces have like a
nine foot ceiling on a very large floor plate so the the sense of proportion is off. And do
what's good about it. He's getting it at a good price of maybe 5 million when it was

previously praised

34:58

good prices happily Good price can only be depending on what you can do with it.
Exactly. Yeah.

35:04

Yeah. So, | mean, it was previously appraised, | think, north of 1515 to 25. range. So it's
okay, what to pray for? Yeah. So | guess the question is, if he was to do a branded hotel,
what are your thoughts on doing a branded hotel? what particular brands do you think

would be?

35:27

Well, not a branded at that point, ticket? Boy, you can have it if a contact one of the
major hotel chains. First of all, you have to know what hotels are, are an area where you're
going to get your people from? Where are you going to? Who's going to go to this
convention? center? Well, precisely. Exactly. | mean, | mean, from where, where, Where's it?
Where's the nearest airport? On your work? And where is it Then who's going to who's
going to be there? Obviously, from what you're telling me, it has a bad history. That's why
it's fake. Well, there's

35:58

a lot of corporate clients very close by if you think about all the Bell Laboratories, all the

Sentinel,
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

Donald very much wants to be liked. And that’s important to him. And yet on the other

hand, in reality, he doesn't care.

11:07

No, he No, he cares. But he but but you have to figure out what's the what's the cost,
involved to be liked. And | think what is what's come through with this is basically, that he
recognizes and we recognize that is, when you're on the when you're the president, you're
ona top right. And somebody said, the higher up the ladder you go, the more your assets
exposed, that’s what he's got. So whatever he does, somebody is going to criticize you
didn't do this, you should have done it sooner. But you're not there. In other words, you're
not making the decision. What would you do if you made it and whatever you did, was
going to tell you, you're wrong. You should have done it harder. So after later, earlier,
whatever, everything is somebody in criticism, you can't do anything, which is going to
have universal appeal. But that's the nature of the office. | love it. | love it. Wonderful
insights is always what you got the same thing you get. Back to you. All right. What are
you what is what is it? What is the what are they gonna do in Canada because of the

shooting down of the plane?

12:10

Very good question. My feeling is probably not much.

12:15

Well, but meanwhile, before you're shut down Canadian citizens. Yeah. It happened to be
you have to be Iranian citizens to that dual citizenship. Correct. But here you have a
really, it was just a blatant act. It wasn’t intentional. But meanwhile they owe you 130

some odd the shows will last now what's what's Canada going to do about it?

12:38

Excellent question. fact that came out today that there might have been a second missile

that hit the aircraft. 30 seconds after the first one.

12:47

What So what? So you don't need more? One took it down. Okay, right. If somebody had
JO

And if he you Want to participate in his deal, he will give you the right but it's it's an
option on your part or their part. It's not compulsory, but give you the right to do whatever
you want to do on your own type of investment, and how much money is involved and so
forth. So you can go your own way on a specific project without worrying about the other
partner, but he has an opportunity to participate. So he can say he can say you don't have
a situation? Well, if you told me that | would have liked to be your partner. And from what
was turned out to be a good deal. Now, you can say fine, here's the deal. I'm going into it,
here's the money that's involved. Do you want to be part of it? Yes or no? If the answer is
no, you're out? If the answer is yes, you're in. And it's as simple as that we've done that.
knows, I've done that, in my partnerships, where we had in our partnership, that is a law
firm that we had for four major partners. And we provided in the part in the agreement to
any one partner could deal could do it do a deal with an existing client. Without the other
partners. However, if we didn't take all of the transaction, the rest of the transaction had
to go to the had to be offered to the other partners if they wanted in or not. So you
couldn't cut them out, unless you took the whole thing. And it worked very well. And we
didn't we did a lot of times, it was one of the parties wanted to do a deal. And | said no,
I'm not a part of it. Whether it was good or bad is is up to whoever made the decision. But
as long as you have the opportunity to participate that you can't be kept out of a
transaction. And so somebody one of the partners taste something very, you know, this is
going to go to end up with making a lot of money, and then the other party never had an
opportunity to even talk about it. That's where you're going to have a problem. To take a
corporate opportunity to use it for one person and not for the other is a problem. But it's
resolved. But you've got that | can understand the difference between certainly, when it
comes to a discrepancy and age, it also comes with is a discrepancy in who's got a lot of
money, is it readily available? And what type of investment that they want that they want
something that's relatively secure, they're ready to take a flyer. So as long as they're not
locked in, and either party would have the right to do it. As long as there is an explanation
or telling you the party, here's what I'm doing. Do you want it? Do you want a piece of it or
not? And if the answer is yes, you got the piece? If the answer is no, you don't. It worked

fine. It's not a problem.

27:49

So am | hearing you say that? Okay, so | think that's what | was gonna ask some follow up
is what | hear you say is that as long as you're offering the deals you want to do
independently, first to your other partners as saying, Hey, we do deals together, we are
current partners. I'm thinking of doing this one, | will let you in at these terms if you want.
And I'm happy to have you. If you don't want it if you don't want to end and it’s so but you
wouldn't go about it and just, you know, six months after projects and progress, like oh,

yeah, by the way, I'm doing this over here. No, no, no,
JO

JO

JO

JO

14:42

Good. Do we have time for just two questions or do I'm just do the first one drill whatever

you want.

14:48

Why don't you start with the start with the question on the lead poisoning. That one was

fascinating.

14:54

Okay, so Georgia Thank you for taking the call. We had one of our tends to form us that
there son went to the doctor and tested positive for lead poisoning. We then had the
house tested and it came back positive for lead based paint, the manager immediately
sought out remediation estimates, and we offer the tenant ability to move to one of our
other vacant houses immediately. So we gave the tenant three houses to choose from the
one they want in a particular school district is not going to be available until the end of
January, we offer the tenants to, to live in a hotel and the interim at our expense. And we
even offer them a rent credit. So instead of moving to the hotel, they're still staying at the
house with the lead based paint and the option for just waiting for, you know, getting the
money and waiting for the the lead based paint except they don't use the water. Right. So
the property managers attorney, they draw during the process of drafting and hold
harmless agreements, or protect the manager and us. And this, this actually just
happened today. So | haven't had a chance to talk to my attorney on it. But just
wondering if you knew of anything else that we should do to aid protect a tenant and be

to protect us on the asset protection aspect of it.

16:13

So what do | want to say what you do, you're protecting the tenant or protecting the
owner, you can't do both. Protecting the tenant is the priority, then what's not the tenant
you're using? you're representing the tenant or you representing the owner, I'm the owner
or my LLC is no if you represent the owner, whoever it is the owner that point as a
problem with with basically was obviously unaware of right? Otherwise, it would have
been resolved earlier now is aware of the problem and is doing everything you can to
mediate to remedy it and being very fair, fine. That’s good. | don't see anything, anything
wrong with that, and you're trying to do the best you can to make the tenant happy. Over

a situation which is not in their control, and certainly no longer in the control of the owner.
JO

JO

reduce the United States is the biggest importer of all of their products. If now their
products come with a higher price tag, that hurts that hurts Chinese, and we'll cut them
will reduce their market share of the United States economy. And it’s a question of time
and how to go do it. And there's got to be a lot of Fossum. You, we're not going to do this
we are going to do how's it going to work out a lot of pain and aggravation, but
ultimately, it will get done. And | think the thing as far as Donald's gonna, he understands
the difficulty of dealing with the with with the foreign car with the foreign countries. And
they've been doing it for all these years they've been nobody's ever gone after him before
the states have sex a certain period of time for them to realize that he’s serious. And also
his theories. And it's a question of time, it has to do something that has to get done. And it
will, it will because it should be you're dealing with like a difference of 800 and $800
million, you know, eight $800 billion a year. That's a big, big swing. So and the also the
stealing of intellectual property and if an American company wanted to go into China,
they had to give the Chinese the Chinese government a piece of a piece of their company.
So it was very, very restrictive. And it's a it's a, it's, it’s panning out, it's going to be a lot of
aggravation, it's going to be a lot of stars stopping gold. But | think ultimately there will be
some kind of a resolution that should be done. Because of the the fact that it makes sense
to do it. So that they both sides have to agree. But as far as a lesson in negotiation, you
understand, basically, that you deal with entirely different culture with a different idea.
And they can smell weakness, they have up to anything, if they think you're weak, forget
it, you're not going to make the deal you thought you're going to make and my personal
thing with everything is going on in the United States. They think the the Trump is a lot
weaker than he is. And they taking advantage of it that | would | can't blame them. At
this. If you think you've got an advantage on your opponent. You did you take advantage
of it. So that's the story there.

05:57

Well, and | know just in terms of context, | know you're giving Donald full marks here. And |
know you're not a Donald fan, even though you worked for him for so many years. | am

not. So for you to give him that higher mark. It says,

06:10

No, you were me. Oh, you said you asked me a specific question. How would | how would |
What would | give him a mark on this as a as a project of what he's doing in this particular
instance? Yes. | said, | will give him a high mark, because he's doing the best that can be
done when you deal with the network and adversary, such as what is China? They're very

good. Everything was spot on and understand. The basic the one of the problems is how
JO

JO

JO

JO

seen people who said yeah, I'll take the gamble that we did it does work and I'll take it
isn't is very similar to broker or broker goes in tickets there where they only get paid if
they make a deal. So they don't do either, they may get a certain basic fee for things but
very low. However, the bulk of the money to make is a percentage of when they have the
sales. So the more sales they have, the more money they make, but you don't make it that
the brokerage company does is not paying you a full time basis as if you were making alll
kinds of sales. So there's, it's a payment based on your worth and what you're what the
return was. It does, it sounds to me like you have some type of a variation like that, and it
does work. But you have to get the right person and you have to make the instance sit
down, here's the incentive. So if you say if you if you do everything you're supposed to say,
I'll tell you what you would have gotten ordinarily No, if you do everything at this, you take
the risk that you're not going to do so well, then | will take the risk that you do so well and

give you bonus for doing better. So it’s a sliding scale.

45:58

But because of the landlord of those projects are going to be the only way | can pay him

more than handsomely would be through equity. Because

46:07

| don't liquid, that's fine. You can say good swimming, we don't care how you pay him. You
say this, but input but it has to be set down so that the the criteria of how they get it, or
what they get is set in stone. They say if if you produce this, here’s what you get, I'll give
you 1% 2% 3% depending upon if my grocery turn is 20% and | only thought it’s gonna be
10% or give you something that will be made high. So we work out all kinds of attorneys
menu how they get based on what are their degree of performance, it works. But if it if

they don't perform, they don't get

46:41

so your opinion to take on third party projects in addition to existing my projects as well.

or third party Oh, good.

46:52

That's Look, the the getting the appropriate personnel is a major feat in any organization.

And you say | need help. In this instance, you need help we need somebody to fill in you
JO

JO

JO

can where you can't pay him what you would pay him but you but you want somebody
that's qualified. And you say Okay, so here's what it is. | know | got your you're going to
have to Gree the desert enough here that if you produce the way are you are you telling
me you can produce your where | think you've reduced, you're gonna end up begging
apart making more money than you thought you could make. On the other hand, if you
don't do it, you don't get it. So the the the return is based on how you perform. And if you
get the right people, they're eager, they know it. They'll work on it. If you get the
deadbeats, they're happy to take the income and don't do it don’t do the work

47:41

is that leaving too much money on the table as well as project that’s bigger.

47:46

Whatever you can, it's a question of how you write it up. And you know, this is something
that can change. It’s not set in stone. So you can try it and see how it works out your works
out or this didn't happen this did this did happen. We have to readjust, | need a lower
percentage, a greater percent, | can pay you more income, | can pay less income,
depending upon, do you have the right person? If you got the wrong person, it’s a bad
deal. Because you need help. And it's not going to give you help, what do you need them
for? On the other hand, if you've got the right person, then since they're wonderful, you
can share with it because they brought in something that you could not do by yourself
because you needed additional help on a full time basis. This is not by any means an
unusual situation. I've seen it time and time again, where somebody says hey, if you'd if
you do this, here’s what you get. And | mean | can give you a give you a concrete example,
where when | was with Donald Trump for 16 years at a time, when | made a deal with him,
which | will be on and | school told that | told him at the time, Donald | am going to work
for less than you know | am worth because at that point, | didn’t really need the money.
But if | do a family do a great deal. | want a bonus. He said okay. And later on | did a great
deal. And one side of a bonus | gave him the he told him this is what it was. And he said
okay, you got it. That's a similar situation here where we take less on a current basis, but if
| produce something spectacular, they're really good. | want to get paid more. Isn't that
what you got here? Yes. Perfect. Yeah, same same concept. Basically. different set of facts,
different people but the same concept. The main thing is you got to get somebody you

feel it can produce the sole

49:37
JO

JO

JO

41:38

| don't like it. | don't like it. | don’t like a repurchase office. It's off the beaten path. You told
me it's 60 miles from nowhere. Yeah. That's not what you know, office building, you need
an office building, you want prime transportation prime nearby. And there has to be where
you're going to get the people to fill the offices. And then it's up. To me that poses a
problem. This is this concept has worked in many other areas where they have an office
facility adjacent to a shopping area, or to some attraction. So there's a it could be it could
have a dual usage, but to set one up, separately, outside of nowhere is that. That's that to
me that be extremely difficult but hazardous. Yeah, that makes sense. Okay. Very good.

Okay. Let’s go next to to Nick. Nick, you're on the line. You can unmute?

42:39

Yes, yes, I'm here. Can you hear me now? Okay. Hello, George. This is Nick. Here we met?
Yeah, I'm great when we met at Ottawa. So | got a question for you. Good. And just get it
out here. Okay, so | have a development management company. And I'm a builder of a
medium sized apartment buildings, | met the inflection point where | need to hire
additional project management skills in order to accompany multiple, simultaneous and
large projects, where I'm also the landlord of those projects. And therefore | required most
of my cash on hand, to be able to complete them. Not the point where | have the extra
cash to do larger projects, and also afford full time project management support. I'm
considering undertaking third party construction project management work to help
recover some of the costs of paying for the top talent | want to hire. What are your

thoughts on Roche? And what do you see any pitfalls with that strategy?

43:45

So | hear where you're coming from. This is that's an interesting, it's an interesting
problem. And is there all kinds of variations of the problem? The the, one of the solutions,
and it’s been so difficult one is this if you've got the right property manager, and you can
get him to say, Look, you're worth, pick a number of that, | mean, that's what you're going
to be worth. And | want you to make that. But right now, the projects in my cookie can
solve it. So | want you to basically, I'll pay you half. But when you produce a certain
criteria, which we set forth, you will not only get the other half, but you'll get a share of
profits because you did better. So you have a performance schedule. And so you have to
have faith or he will he or she would have to have faith that they can make this project
work even though they're not getting fully paid in the way in. Keep it does work. It does do

SO and I've seen it and I've seen it I've seen it work. I've seen it done very well. And I've
