JO

JO

JO

Nah, that's not as big of against my That's nonsense. Okay. Where, who tells you the
stigma in my mind? The only stigma you'd find with modular construction if you're
building mansions? Okay, so we're building that typical, the typical one family house,

maybe at a maximum of 3500 square feet, big deal. Okay, could be modular all you want.

47:56

That's what my guts been telling me. And, you know, I've been trying to decide whether to
stick to my what | think is my knowledge that the finished product is going to be superior
in quality.

48:06

But yes, but the finished product is this also understand that when you make the
arrangements who's ever building out in the factory, at that point, you can get all kinds of
warranties and guarantees from the factory that you you couldn't get from a builder, if the
builder was was building it himself. That's true, though, you may be able to get a five year
guarantee instead of a two year guarantee a one year guarantee workmanship. So there
were advantages because you got better construction. Now, if the if you can show the
sales factor on the modular construction is the factory, they must have homes that they
have built, that was ever built with their products in various places. Oil is a good brochure
showing this and some testimonials from the people that are there. Yes, it’s great. And
generally speaking, you get they can do better, because they do more of it. It's
standardized way to build your business standardized. So there are advantages but the
mobile home Forget it. There's no there's not a mobile home. No, no, that's, that's short
minded. It's not modular construction has a place and in many places, it goes very, very
well. It sells very well, because it’s, it's standardized. And the standard is good. So if the if
the company that's building it is good, and their standards are good, you got a good
product that he should sell. And the answer is going to get less than if you get a builder on
site. Absolutely. Oh, awesome. You're gonna deliver on time, you know, there are big
advantages. Yeah, because they do this on a on a constant basis rather than the get a

builder who shows up when he when he's ready.

49:41

Oh, absolutely. We go from 25 weeks down to down to six weeks. Great. Yeah, it's
JO

JO

jo

49:48

that's less time you have to carry the property. You carried a mortgage or carried the
taxes. Exactly. That's great. That's the way to go.

49°35

Alright, terrific. Thank you, George. You're welcome. All right, next month, June the 20. If,
and an email will be going out to everyone, thank you again so much, George. Thanks for
the wisdom. Okay. I'll talk to you next time. Okay, bye now,

50:09

there's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio comm make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful
syndicating
JO

What's up? Hey, quick question. While you've been around for a while, how do you live

and what in a while?

34:22

How do you be a top performer in all areas and have balance in life as well? What have
you found to be the most effective way to go about this? Okay, that's a good that's a very
good question. And the question is very simple as his balance. You know, you have to
figure out some type of a game plan. What do you want in life and usually boils down to
two things or that two individual items, but it's an i composite idea. One is money or
wealth. How much do you need or how much do you want in order to maintain the
lifestyle which you'd like to have or you're comfortable with? And that's a finite number,
but you have to put Down below, you have to say good or good for what am |, what are
my expenses over discipline in order for me to live the lifestyle | want, | need extra X
number of dollars a year. Alright. And you see how much you got to have that X dollars, if
you haven't got it at this point, and then you too, then the problem is, | have to change my
lifestyle because | haven't got enough money to support that lifestyle, which means | have
to create the income in the interim, | got to change the light change the idea for the
lifestyle. So the lifestyle is not owned by any means. It's just your idea of what you what
you need, or you would be satisfied with at a certain point in time. And that’s whatever
you want we have in mind. And otherwise, you're gonna have a huge house or they stand
true, they dimensions could have 18 cars, whatever floats your boat, but be smart enough
to put it down and write up the number | write it up every year, you should. That's the first
end. That's the part. So instead of saying, | know what | need, or | need, | could live with
$1,000,000.10 million, 20 million, 50 million, whatever it is to figure out what you really
need and what would go to get what you where you are as to where you want to be. And
you do that if you do that on an annual basis, you'll you'll have some feeling that | am
there, or I'm not there, how far you are from where to go, whatever goal you want to
achieve. That's the half part. The other part is more important that’s balancing it with your
time with your family, with your friends, with the community, with charities, or whatever it
is the happy, the fun that you're going to have, or that makes life worthwhile. While you
you have the money to do what you want to do. But you also have the things that you feel
are important. And that's, again, you have to make up your own mind, how important is it?
How important is it for you to be charitable, give money to charities, or to or to spend
time with your children or your grandchildren? Or go on vacations? And you know, we
figure it out and then work it out so that you can live that lifestyle and not easy. But no,
no. But early on. | had said to say | will never work after 530 in the evening. Because | want
to go home, | want to see my children, | want to watch them grow up, | want to spend time

with my wife. That became my lifestyle. And | would really feel sexually you time blocked
JO

JO

conversation that | had with with this guy was like, you're probably lucky that that
happened, because you'd still be been for that property that wouldn't be worth what
would you know, what it was back in? 2006? You know, | was looking forward thinking,
Man, what if we get into a situation even with a local lender on a bigger project, and they
decided, you know, but yeah, but we're gonna call the bone. | understand that. I'm getting
back out. Dealing with bankers. bankers are not business people. They're bikers. Only one
of those Do | get my money back? They were business people, they would be in business,
they'd own real estate, they'd not be making loans on it. And they're the worst. But you
can play game, you can take them to the wall, and they'll back off long ways. And that is
not good. Because let's say what happens. Suppose they call along and the property goes
on Foreclosure, How much are they going to get in foreclosure, pennies on the dollar. So
at that point, maybe whoever you buy it in at the reduced price, they're not going to get
their value. So exempted before that it’s a long ways away before they take that route and
really enforce it and really go for it. This is just a situation where Yeah, they'd like to get
out of it. That's nice. And rose made it at an earlier point in time when values who are but
as long as being paid, they got a weak position. Got it? Okay. Yeah, | should, | should have
the hair on my head, for every loan, the COVID client had to without going into
foreclosure, or the boy, the lender tried to make all kinds of gestures. So you're thinking so
sO so in your experience, just because they sent out the letter saying, you're going to come
up with the money in 60 days, that that was not the end of story. And in most cases, they
debt only they aren't able to? Sorry? Only the beginning of the story. Yeah, they would like
more assets, they would like this. Maybe like personal guarantees. Maybe they say well
come up and give me 200,000 in cash as additional security. Yeah, that’s what they're
planning there. That's what they would like. That doesn't mean that they're going to get it.
That's a first shot to see what happens. | will give them back in basically and told look,

drop dead nasty letter will follow. Yep. Okay, good.

16:37

That's awesome. Great question, Dave. Okay, this next question is from Matthew and

Patrick. Matt, are you on the line?

16:44

Yeah, Victor. I'm here. Alright, go ahead. Yeah, Victor. We got minor Patrick. That is not.
Okay. We're g Patrick couldn't make it tonight get to work. So the question we have is,

we're looking at buying a 5.6 acre parcel. And there's a weird encumbrance on title. It’s,
the seller has put an encumbrance on the title. However, the family owns the parcel for

the last several generations. They want a lot of land in the area that we're looking and
JO

JO

_)O

JO

JO

32,20

carry that one step further, that it's not necessary that the letter of credit be for the full
amount that the guy is going to put up. It could be for half or whatever. But so that will
reduce the exposure. In other words, instead of having to replace somebody for 5 million,
if you had to replace it for two and a half million could be a lot easier, because you
already got to wrap. | see. There's some flexibility there. And also, if you've got a new
investor coming in, you say, look, | had somebody who came in and said he was gonna go
for 5 million at this, he dropped out, but it got to it. So I'm not sure he gave got two and a
half. So you only have to put up two and a half and you got the same advantage of the
five, the other two and a half is already put up. So the the letter of credit or the lead
becomes the second investor or the group of investors you're looking for in the first
instance.

33,12

Interesting. Wow, that's a very neat idea. Okay, very, very good. | hadn't | hadn't even
thought of that. And that’s why | try to come up with new ideas. That's not new. No, |
understand. Good. And so then | guess the second part of the question is, how many

backup plans should Carolyn have in place,

Bo.

you don't have a cup of prep, you shouldn't have any, if you have one, fine, but you're
gonna pay for the backup plan. If you don't pay for it. That's one thing if you pay for it,
that's good as far as like buying insurance, but if you've got the right borrower or the
borrower is solid, then is a bank at that point. You don't need a bank a plan, like you know
exactly how much how much insurance would you carry on your life if you're going to live
don't carry insurance, right? All right. Very good. Okay. Can't come up with any kind of a
number on that. That's the risk that you take. If you know who you borrow who your lender
is.

34:04

Okay, next question is from Vince Jaco. Vince, are you on the line?

34:08

Hi, Victor. Go ahead, Vince. Hello, Victor. page again. Hi, how are you? Sir? I'm good.
JO

_)O

JO

JO

25:21

right at the beginning right now, right now, right now you do it at this point, and he gives
the tenant you can set a good answer all cozy. Well, if you're not built, if you're not built by
a certain period of time, | have the right to back out. So these but you're gonna agree in
the agreement that you have that you will build it at a certain you'll have it ready for
delivery by a certain date, that would be part of the agreement. If the if you that happens
in the tennis, the tennis bound, if it's not, he may have the right to get out in the event that
you you don't build it at all, or you don't build it on a timely basis. That's all part of a firm
agreement. In other words, an agreement to lease when we when a thing is complete.

And that's difficult. That's usual. So | don't know why you would go do something different
that it takes to go back and go back and say, This is why I'm building a house. All right, |
can show you the model. And you say, Okay, | like the model. Yes. All right. Well sign a
contract that | will build that house in Milan, you will buy it on the term. Why is that any

different? Because it happens to be a blimp, the same thing, same concept.

26:30

Yes, it is. It is the same concept. But | think the only thing we haven't done yet is we
haven't specified clearly enough what they will be getting in that blank show what's

included and what's not, in order to

26:45

get this 40 bucks a foot. Right? Yeah. But you should be able to do is you're able to bid
out, we'll find out what the what the finishes are in the $40 of what what the the flooring is
going to look like what the carpeting is going to look like what painting the whole bit, all
of that. Yes, you should have specifications that hey, this is the building standard,
anything above building standard does you pay for it? Correct? Correct. That's the
building standard and say it's worth 40 bucks a foot or it’s not worth 40 bucks a foot or
whatever. But that's the same in if you had a house, you know, you told the builder tells
you what you're getting does, you're getting this appliance, that appliance, you're getting
carpeting or you're getting flooring, whatever puts down all this for the specs of what
you're going to get for what you're paying. So to the extent that you want the extent you
want to do an extra, or you want to vary, you take the money and you you do what you

want,

27:39
JO

JO

JO

JO

right, so it sounds like we're almost engaging the tenants a little too soon in the process,

because we haven't completed enough of that design work ourselves.

27:46

Correct? Correct. You have basically priced out the $40 a square foot did you say? How
close is it to what what the guy really needs? Getting is $40 or whoever was good? So he
says, Okay, | can live with it? Or is it really need 100 offices with within your 40 doesn't

cover? Right, in which case there'll be further discussion

28:08

now prior to breaking ground? Yeah, | get that. So prior to breaking ground on the
building will definitely want to have firm commitments on enough of the square footage
so that we were confident that it's going to get leased up right. Apart from getting
assigned lease. What kind of financial commitment Do you think we should be extracting

upfront from the tenants? How much cash should we do? |

28:28

wouldn't | you, but you're really putting you're throwing another wrinkle in it at an early
stage, which is unnecessary this boy on so say in the agreement to buy, it’s assuming you
have the right out if he doesn't meet the financial requirements. But that's after the signed
contract. | see. So then you can put in whatever you want, you're going to go to bank but
don't detail it, you'll probably scare the hell out of that. Boy, if you make it too difficult.
They'll never pass it. Right, right, guys, just subject to your approval, or 70 of your
reasonable approval. Okay, that makes sense. You know, which doesn't sound the owners
at that, but when the time comes, that they're ready to sign a contract or are signing the
contract, then they can ask you good. What do you have? What is this? What is involved?
What but generally speaking, they won't, because they'll assume that that boy that you
they'll pass the pass the credit, because if they didn't pass it you can you cancel contract.
Right, right. Yeah, | mean, make it make it owners or any anything indications how many
how much assets what how much debt worth was? No, don't do that. Okay. Don't act as a
bank. Right, right.

29:37

Okay, that makes sense. Okay. Okay. Next question is from Carolyn Matthews. CJ, are you
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

jo

which is basically run or controlled by one party, and then somebody new comes in, that
party has to help the new party handle the use of the business, and teach them what's
good, what goes on, so that he doesn't make any horrendous mistakes. That's typical, not

a typical

07:09

right now, would you have any concerns that a 300,000 year the business is too small to

be sustainable? Should he look at amalgamating with something else? To try and make it?

07:19

| don't see anything probably that you know, it's not depending on the nature of the

business. Well, what does it require in a way of his time?

07:26

You know,

07:26

how much supervision does it need in order to maintain the cash flow and make 100,000?
If the answer is quite a bit, then it’s not a good deal? If the answer is very little than it is a
good deal. And from what the nature of the business you're saying. It doesn't seem to me
to be too complex, and therefore, you can probably do it with a minimal staff. That would

be my reading of it, but | could be dead wrong. | just don't have enough information.

07:50

Right now. | think your reading of it is the same as mine.

07:53

Well done this in spite so nice. A little bit. Yeah, | think shadow not overpaying for it, and

then there’s nothing wrong with passive income.
JO

JO

position. And court basically is reluctant to foreclose, when the payments are, in fact being
made, and foreclose on a technicality. So | would, as far as is concerned, | would just tell
her basically double Linda, well do what you want, but I'm gonna fight you you can't take
you can't take the property, but making all the payments at this give me give me an
opportunity to replace the loan or you know, for a period of time, and if you don't, at that
point, you know, you'll take your best shot, they don't want to foreclose, that's a threat,
but they don't want to do it. And the courts are very, very tenant or you know, borrower
oriented, especially in Flint, Michigan. Okay. So in eristic ideas, they don't like the idea of
lenders arbitrarily quality and alone. Okay. So typically, like, like in America situation when
we're getting ready to build and we're signing on the node, and we get into a situation
where we now have a property that stabilize, but now our values dropped because of
something that was out of our control, you're thinking the courts would rule in our favor?
Yes. First of all, that's because you're ruling your payment. | don't see the when push
comes to shove, | don't see Linda pushing it. They can threaten it, but | don't see that
they're going to carry it to the extreme. foreclosures are very expensive, and they usually
take a period of years, can you get a little closer to what kinds of defenses that the bank
should that the lender should not be doing it, you're making the payments, it’s a hardship
and you haven't got the money? Well, you could come up with all kinds of defenses. And
the courts generally are a lien in favor of the borrower and not the lender, because
actually, here the lender at that boy is getting paid. It's Linda, we're getting paid. That's,
that could be a different story, but he's they're getting paid. And they say, Oh, yeah, but |
don't like the | don't like the ratio of the value of the property to the loan. And under the
terms of the agreement, | have the right to call it as a result of that. That's a technicality.
Okay. And, you know, the courts or the courts have a tendency to lean definitely in favor

of the borrower, if you're making the payment.

12:01

That's good to know, because | look back at some of the documents that | signed some of

the facts of it property. The truth is,

12:10

if a lender wants to fork wants to call along, again, with all kinds of reasons that he
doesn't like the creditor, the borrower has changes, they can so adapted and newspapers
that you signed with only with it with everything that's there. You know, that's typical,
that's what you would say, but that wouldn't that works in the favor of the borrower in the

event that the lender tries to push too hard.
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

on his takes on hand. So that Michael doesn't have to run the business, but at the end of
certainly a period of time, be a year, two years or whatever is involved in the business,

then it should be should be able to operate without too much difficulty.

05:40

So are you thinking of maybe putting on earnouts type of arrangement in place?

05:45

No, no, no, no, no, not an arena, just as | would have, which is very often when the
business is sold, the owner is takes on a contract for a property is where he will perform
services and get paid for it. | see over the period of time that he'll will, he will basically run
the business for what you might call a startup period or a period of time long enough to
prove it to new owner to get to understand everything is going on, and to put a staff in

place. This is not unusual.

06:14

Right. Right. So some transitional services agreement where he's providing some contract

leadership.

06:20

That's correct. where he's going to basically run the business, he gets paid and runs the
business now, if, from what you're saying, basically saying that you get about 100,000. net,
so there's room to pay this guy some kind of a salary in the interim basis, while he’s doing

the, you know, getting getting new Michael involved,

06:37

right. And some of the 100,000 would obviously go towards servicing some debt to
purchase for that. 300,000. But,

06:44

yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, this is a typical transaction is typical, where you have a business,
JO

JO

nature of the asset, the nature of the asset, if we're talking about the residential property,
residential Realty, it will traditionally it's going to appreciate value over a period of time,
very simple because it’s going to cost more to build new than it is to build Something is
already built. So if you build something is that what | understand if you wanted to do it
again, in five years, it's going to cost more than it did originally. So that's an advantage
coupled with the fact that there people have to have a place to live. So as a result of that,
that's a pretty solid type of investment. | don't care what the Kawasaki or what have you
said, for a builder at this point, it's a great and you're in, you're in a tight market, that's
great. So you end up making a 6% return or a 5% return, but over a period of time, it's
going to be a lot more because the asset is going to appreciate in value. So | wouldn't be
listened to somebody who's done. A lot of people do that. And that's psychological. When
you when you say it's sitting on the sidelines, or for a particular, it depends on the asset, it
depends on where it's located. It depends where you're talking now about the B or C
classification, as that's an arbitrary classification. If it’s residential real estate in an area,
that's that’s a good area, | over a period of time, it’s going to go up in value. It’s as simple
as that. This is not the same for commercial shopping centers, also, or strip strip malls,
whole different ballgame, because that requires a tenant to pay the rent, people always
will be able to pay the rent to where they live. That's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. I've never
separated the two classes quite that same way. But yeah, for sure. classes. It’s also it also
is where it's area, you know, | mean, they say, for example, that there are areas in Dallas,
which are red hot in areas that you couldn't, couldn't give away. But that's in any city. So
it's not, you can't say, Well, is it good? Is it good and good, the market good. And it may
be good in certain types of properties in certain areas, and not good in other areas. Real
estate is unique in addition to specific site at a specific time. And it could be good or bad
at that time or changeable. But that's the nature of the business. All right. Well, thank you.

Appreciate it. You're welcome. What do we got?

47:02

We got any more we threw one last question. So go ahead. Once from my business, we're
we're looking to build 45 new homes in two residential subdivisions in Asheville, North
Carolina. Yeah, the local brokers are telling me that in North Carolina, we have to disclose
the method of construction on the MLS Lister. Fine. We've done our homework and come
to the conclusion that we can build the same house in a factory for 25% less than if we
stick build on site. And we're not talking mobile home. So | know this is a stigma against

modular construction.

47:36
JO

JO

JO

JO

concerned the Giuliani is or was is basically structuring things he for ultimately, whatever
is going to happen in the investigation of anything. And as far as Jay Goldberg is
concerned, he's an old guy. He was he he's an old warhorse. And he will say anything that
he they he can to get his name in television. So what you've got over here is everybody

fighting for publicity? Right, right. That's what you got.

01:47

| mean, it was very strange. | mean, I've met Rudy Giuliani on a number of occasions. And
he strikes me as someone who comes into situations extremely well prepared. You know,
he's very methodical. He's not one of these shoot from the hip kind of guys. So what's
been going on has been fascinating, you know, to see him actually contradicting the

president is

02:06

contradicting in certain things. He's basically setting setting what should have been said
Originally, | understand that's the difference between a product lawyer the way he would
say things in the way principal would state things. So what he's doing is clarifying the
record. And basically, whatever happens happens, but that's what that’s what he what
he's doing to get things straight, because what happens is this is any statement with the
President makes is going to be chopped up, no matter how that how what what he says,
it's going to be chopped up, right, and they're going to interpret it, you should have said
this, you should have done it sooner, you should have done it later. | don’t like the word
you use. The media is going to chew it up. So Giuliani's function primarily is to go on
record and set things the way he thinks they should be set, because ultimately, he’s going
to be involved heavily in the legal proceedings, whatever they go, whatever, wherever they
go. So what do you got is a lot of good television. But unfortunately, we don't have a
government that's operating. No kidding. It's certainly a huge distraction, that total total

distraction is nothing really to it. It's a waste of time. But so be it.

03:11

| appreciate your insight. Okay, well, this this first question comes from Michael Reimer

03:18

before before we go, | understand the media is out for one thing, get this get listeners, you
they're notorious for being difficult to deal with. After doing some due diligence, we found
that these titles run on there. The first one is from 95. And it’s actually from the seller to
purchase the property. The second one is freight First, the first right of refusal registered
on title again, from the seller, it seems like it's a way for the seller to default on the sale
with no consequence. In your experience. What does the back of back off track or back
office a minute is the who is the seller, the seller they own the property of the seller is got
some kind of a contract to buy it if he wants to. Okay, so the numbered company that
owns the property? Yep. Is the seller there the seller now and then the seller, and you will
you'll be buying directly from them? Yes. At a price that would be agreed upon? Yes. Okay.
The only problem is, is that somebody else is has a right of first refusal. The seller son,
okay, the seller son has a right of first refusal. So he has a right of first refusal, which he
put on at that point, so that he can he can match the price that you want to pay. Right
first, we're assuming that's why we're we don't know why you would have put that on
there. Well, he was the son. It's a great deal. When you gave us a great deal, you're tying
up a piece of property with no money. Technically, yeah. But it's in his whole family
technically, like he’s part of that company. That's got the knowledge. But meanwhile, he’s
got an edge. What he's what he got basically is like assume now that you went and you
put a carburetor, you've got a contract, a legitimate contract to buy the property and
agreed price. Now, bro son, at this point, can say, look, hey, I'm going to exercise my right
of first refusal or I'm gonna kill the deal. Unless you come up and pay me some money.
That's a physician. He's got a blackmail position, not necessarily something that he wants
to do. But his position, his position is good. But it’s a it's a Jesse James shot, not a real
owner shot he wanted and he would he would make arrangements to buy it directly from
Malaysia relative. Okay, now, is there a way we can still protect ourselves from that? Yeah,
yeah. Protect yourself at that point, make a contract, you make the contract with the
seller. If the if the design exercise the right of first refusal, you get a penalty, you get some
money for the privilege of stepping up to the plate. It's not unusual. Now what about
trying to get the first rate the rate of first removal removed from title? Well, that is if you
can't get the right to first you lose. If you get the answer, then you got to talk to the son.
All right, I'm just sitting there suddenly gonna say why should he remove the right of first
refusal unless he gets something so you're back to square one at that point without
having to say who blackmail you to give up the right of first refusal which he really doesn't
want to exercise. Guess that's a bit | guess that is the best way. We had that in mind thing.
And we go back | don't know at this point, but assuming you talk to me generally, at the
Zoom, you go through what's the purchase price for the property looking to buy? 10 million
10 million? Good. Okay, you got to put up a down payment of 100. Grand proximately?
Yes. Okay, well, 100 Grand Tour or something like that was going to be held in escrow,
assuming the deal goes through, right gonna be held in escrow are torn. So that you
provided this boy with this with the seller, that you have that in the event that this that the
Son exercises, the right of first refusal. At that point, you get back not only you get back
JO

JO

your deposit double or 100,000 more, because the owner basically controls should control
the song. Yes. Now, can he? Can he use that right of first refusal after the conditional
period? One, can we certainly | don't know, what's the right approach? And says no. Okay.
Because if | don't know what to do, right, why do | the FTC, the terms of the right of first
refusal, usually the first refusal disappears when you have a legitimate offer, and a
contract, it doesn't continue on. So that's what | was worried about is maybe possibly
continuing on. So when we start doing our surveys and whatnots are spending money.
Next, you know, he cuts it. But yeah, but you can put the all of that you can put in a
contract with the seller. Or just say is that have if you son at that point, decides he wants
to be Jesse James and hold the thing up, | get back X number of dollars as a penalty plus
whatever expenses | put in, because he now is exercising the right of first refusal. You can
do that. What will happen is you'll shake loose your shake the sun a little and the seller
apart. Yeah, just good. Exactly. That's what will happen. Yeah, that’s what you want to do.
Yeah, but

21:41

don't deal with these with the sun. That's a waste of time. Okay, perfect. Thank Well, it’s
not perfect. It's not perfect. A lot of these data, the right of putting and putting the right of
first refusal on the properties is stupid thing to do. Yeah, any owner, even someone
notorious in that area for doing things of that nature, or, you know, if you approach them
about a piece of land that's not for sale, he'll listen to your offer, then counter with some
insane number. Yes, he's, he's, he’s a strange person, | think. Yeah, no, Oh, right. A person
fusible is not an unusual situation in a way that we have contracts this boy where
somebody sells the price, you know, sells it, and says, Okay, | still have the right of first, |
got, if you want to resell it at a higher price, at that point, | can come back and back out,
you know, good. wants to know that he’s not, you're not making them unnecessary profit
on the sale of the property. But generally speaking, you don't see too many of the right of
first refusal. And they're, they're good for the guy who got it not for the guy who gave it.
Well, thank you. That's, that’s what we'll do. Great. What's next?

22:48

Okay, next. So, George, this is one from our business where we recently actually just this
week received zoning approval for a new office building in Lake Charles, Louisiana. We
talked about this before. We did we did we actually just got zoning this week. Okay. And
we've got several groups expressing interest in leasing space in the building. And once it's
complete on the, you know, the interior is going to be a blank shell. So we've got a couple

of tenants buildings out, I'm sorry, build it out, we'll build out the interior. Well, we're gonna
Ollee

PC+-+May+2018+-
+Mastermind+Call+with+George+Ross

a Wed, 9/8 10:08AM @ 50:26

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, property, business, loan, point, buy, money, tenant, investor, refusal, lender, build, asset,

george, building, good, bank, put, borrower, period

JO

JO

JO

00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:06

Welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross.
George has been part of the Trump Organization for many, many years in business for
over 60 years, taught at the law school at NYU for over 20 years, the author of two best
selling books, one of the wisest men | know, get your journals out, pen and pencils ready.
And we'll dive right in. Welcome, George. Yes, go ahead. So George, you're probably one
of the few attorneys who's worked for Mr. Trump, who hasn't been on television this week.
Thought that voluntary on my part. | can | can imagine. So what do you make of this? |
mean, you've got Mike Cohen making public statements Rudy Giuliani. Now Jay Goldberg

criticizing Rudy.

00:52

| mean, what am |? The thing is it’s, it's this is a result of the use of the media as it as it
exists today and the television and everything is everything is blown up out of proportion.
Anybody that can get exposure will if they figure it's going to help them out. And as far as
Mike Cohen is concerned, he was a lawyer in the office at that point, | basically don't

know, all of the details that he did, that'll probably come out as far as Giuliani is
JO

JO

on the line? You can press star six to unmute if you're on the phone. Okay, | don't hear her
so I'll ask the question on her behalf. So she has smaller residential assisted living home
that she's looking to build out. Now they already own the property. They had a funding
source lined up for the construction who was actually looking to place a minimum of 5
million, which was much larger than they needed. So what they did is they bundled this
along with seven other properties and refight the seven properties, in addition to the one
that they're looking to build out as a package and the funding source of Yes, like that
ready to go. And then the funding source went quiet. And it turns out that the principal
had a heart attack. So they're clearly back in the hunt for capital with no plan B and
perhaps on a compressed timeline. And they've run into this sort of thing before. So this is
really more of a generic question for probably most people on the call is really two
questions. The first is, when you're looking to raise money, would you recommend that
they engage with a single investor or rather syndicate with multiple investors? And then

the second question is, how many backup plans should they have in place?

30:58

Well, that's it says sector support boy, | would advise against a single investor, as it goes
multiple industries, | would go for multiple investors, because now we have multiple
investors, one single investor dropping out does not totally hazard as you may be able to
cover up for some of the other investors can will take up the slack, when you have a single
investor, and it's a person not a bank, or a lender with with tremendous assets, you got

the risk at that point, that that's that that party is going to show up when the time comes
to close. That's the nature of the business, | can't tell you not to take it. But that's so that's
the risk you take. And then if it falls apart at the wrong time, you're going to have a
problem that double replacing it because your time is out of whack. Now, what you can
have basically, early at that point, when you have it, what's the matter with letter credit,
get the get the investor put up a letter of credit, interest LED, the investor is appointed,
while they're solvent, or it's still alive anyway, they can now go to the bank and get a letter
of credit with the bank says, okay, you build it, we'll pay it. So they basically backed up the
credit so that you don't have to worry about the investment not being there when you
need them. And let her credit and not overly expensive provided the leverage by putting it
up as, as the assets which which can cover the amount of letter of credit is a good
investor and good solvent investor at that point should have no real problem getting a

letter of credit from the bank.

32:21

That's a very good suggestion. That's a very, really good suggestion. And also, you
JO

JO

JO

JO

08:00

Yeah, exactly. | think it's a good move. Even if it's not, you know, a passion project or

anything like that. It could be

08:05

a snap debate, but these are good. You never, you know, it's fine. You know, side deals are

good. As long as they make money.

08:12

Yeah, exactly. Wonderful. Okay, next question is from Dave Zook. Dave, are you on the

line?

08:18

lam Can you hear me? Okay. Good. | can hear you fine, Dave. Alright. Thanks. Thanks,
George, for joining us, again, for making yourself available. |, the question is, | talked to an
investor this week. And he gave me an example what happened to him, and he was an
investor in Flint, Michigan, he had a loan on several big several, you know, good sized
projects, | think his his loan was around 900,000, or the bank. And it was it was a fixed
loan. It wasn't like an open line of credit situation. But the bank called the note, they
weren't in default, they were making their monthly payments. Everything was in the bank. |
shouldn't call the note because it's just do know, they call the note because these values
dropped on his property. Oh, so they're saying that they they're not happy anymore with
ratio of low value? Yeah, so they call them and this was back. Yeah. But as | back in 1009,
and 10. Yeah, but where is it? And what is the mortgage? The mortgage, well, now require
a certain line to value ratio, or it's just the bank figuring they weren't gonna happy. You
know what? That's a great question. | would, | would assume it was probably in the
mortgage that had, you know, that that had that in it. But | guess my question is, well, |
had that happen. | had that conversation with one other It was a mentor of mine, who,
you know, this was a bigger loan. This was 300 and $300 million, where the bank did the
same thing they called the note he said, we can't call the note I'm making the payments,
we're not default. And he said, Well, if you look at the 300 page thing that you signed the
urine default some Okay, and you're gonna have to come up with the money. So my
question is, what are the risks? Yeah, | mean, we're getting ready to sign on some, some
loans, some real understanding. | would basically lender at that point, | would would go

after the lender. And | wouldn't just give in, | think at that point lenders, lenders got a weak
JO

JO

JO

JO

provide a budget for tenant improvements. So okay, let's say $40 a square foot for ti
anything about that they'll pay okay. Right. Now we've got a bunch of prospective tenants
looking to discuss interior design with our architect which on one level, we're fine with, we
haven't really put a process in place for qualifying the tenants or even entering the tenant
serious enough to warrant spending money with the architect prior to having a written
commitment. So why did you have a written commitment? Why can't we just yeah, we're

not at that stage yet. So the question is what we're kind of promoting if

23:54

you're not if you're not at the stage, what are we then why everything else? That is a big
maybe, why can't you be at this age? If you want to test somebody to see whether or not
the serious get assigned to a signed commitment that Yeah, they'll take, they'll take the
property, they'll lease lease it out? When it's the goal is complete? No, that's typical to do

it on a maybe is becomes hazardous as best.

24:17

| guess my question is, so in the early stages of a conversation with a prospective tenant,
how can you ask for a commitment or, you know, what stages would you take that tenant

through maybe a memorandum of understanding or something,

24:32

not a memorandum of understanding first, you got to get the deal, okay. Otherwise, once
he says, assuming now that you have the tenant and the tenant is ready to do it, there was
a problem getting a firm commitment. And the firm commitment is this but you have the
right to buy back out of the firm commitment in the event that you're not satisfied with his
financial history or doing business. So you're not gonna make a credit check with a lender
or a bank can do that you got to be satisfied with or otherwise You can back out, but he
can't back out. So he's now at that point says, Okay, yeah, you build it, | buy it, and | rent
it. And here's what | rent it at, and you give me 40 bucks a square foot to build it out
anything over, | will pay, that’s a sign to sign a binding agreement. That's where you start.

That's the appropriate place.

25:18

And how early in the conversation with the tenant would you put those right now?
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

12:31

Yeah. Okay. So good. Good enough. Thank you.

12:34

So David, here was, so was that loan that was called an insured loan, either with HUD or
with one of the agencies like Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac?

12:43

No, it was with a local lender. And the only reason they were calling the loan is because
the value drops drastically went from being valued at 900,000, | think, drop into like,
500,000, or something like that. | mean, it was it was a, you know, it was over, you know,
from 2005 to 2010. It was that time period. Yeah, well, you can kind of, especially in Flint,
Michigan, my God, that boy, you know, there’s so much going on there that the courts, the
judges are very responsive to do not having anything is going to drive us more businesses
into bankruptcy, or is call in loans. So in this instance, without in a nice way, I'd say hey,
you know, look, I've been willing to do what's necessary to be done, but you've been the
loan is still getting paid when the loan is not paid. Soeak to me, meanwhile, don't call her

on a technicality.

lae32

Now in this particular, in these future loans that were the Dave is talking about where
we're contemplating having, you know, hide backing, the chances of that loan getting

called | would imagine would drop significantly,

13:46

because he got hurt and behind it. Right. Right. Absolutely. Absolutely. That's different. We
got a federal agency or Fannie Mae or something was guaranteeing a loan. That's a
whole different story, then they're not, well, you know, what happened? They won't call it
want to get paid. That's their only concern and getting paid, how do | get my money
back? If they get their money back to satisfied if they don't get their money back? They're
not satisfied. But this one is that you have is just a technical technicalities is Hey, the truth
is, | don't like the loan anymore. I'd like to get out of it. But that's doesn't mean because it's
not being paid. It's just that | think that the, the loan is too high for the value of the

property. But that's not unusual. You know, I'm probably increased in value. Yeah. And the
JO

JO

JO

JO

get listeners by coming up with news or scandalous things or something is have you
noticed on television, it all, they never give you the source. They only say it The New York
Times says or this says that they never get the source so you don't know where it’s coming
from, if at all, and you can't get that so it's you got to take everything is there with with a

shaker salt, not a grain. Okay, let’s go on to the next.

03:51

| appreciate your insight. Thank you for that. Okay, so this first question comes from
Michael Reimer. And he unfortunately couldn't be on the call. But so I'll ask the question
on his behalf. He has a relative who's looking to retire from a business. It's a business that
actually is involved in commercial waste management, or waste disposal. So you know,
dumpsters and all that kind of thing. The relatives looking to retire wants to sell the
business at a fair price. Much of the purchase price is actually for the physical assets. He's
not really buying the income stream. But for for Michael, it's not a passion project, it'll be
more of a residual, you know, source of income. It generates about 300,000 a year in
gross income, about 100,000 a year net, and it’s being bought for one times gross
revenue, which | think is a fair price. Now. Michaels question is how to set things up to
operate the company successfully without you know, really with a minimum of

intervention from the owner and | know you've had a number of cibus

04:48

Yeah, but just because there's backup backup. He has a he has a relative you saying the
owner is a relative of Michael's? Yes, that’s correct. Okay, and Michael Basically, he’s going
to be doing the business, the owner, the relative, the uncle, whoever it is that there's going

to be, there's going to phase out of the operation.

05:06

Correct. So Michael is going to take it over, but it's not going to be his primary source of

business, it's fine like this.

05:12

Okay, | would say is this the old what Michael was basically do get from these, the
outgoing seller, some type of a short term contract may be a year or two years or three

years, in which they'll teach Michael the business, as well as any staff, which Michael puts
JO

JO

JO

40:22

standard. Yeah, yeah, that's all but bought insurance and disability. So the kids could go
to a nice school and ultimately went to college. And later on at that point, good Senator, |
grew up my grandchildren to college went up to medical school. But those are different,
because now we're 4050 years later, at that, yeah, and you're making more income and
you've made investments. And it’s turned out that you have, you have the money to do
what you want to do, at a certain point in time, where you didn't have that early on. But
this is personal. It’s personal for each and every person, you have to figure out the balance
what it is that you you will you're satisfied with what absolutely everybody has their own
goal, right? That's correct. And their own goal and whatever makes them happy. Yep, that
will make you happy, fine, but just be realistic. Okay, that’s awesome. Thank you. Okay,

George, so much for philosophy.

41:13

Alright, we've got three more questions here. We'll try and get through them all here. So,

Mike, Mike, are you on the line?

41:20

Yeah, Victor. I'm here. Go ahead. Hey, George, thanks for taking the time. Listen, we were
Yeah, we were in Dallas at the real estate guys syndication event, you mentioned that you
should never do a long term project with short term money. In our business. We're buying
distressed assets. And many times it is with short term money. | mean, you know, one to
one to two years, generally two years. But that's, that's okay. That's not a long term. When
| said that, at that point, I'm talking long term, much more than low carbon to me is five to
10 years more, or that that's long term, what you got now is short term, project funding,
because you're out you're out of it within two years. You're not keep it and just to clarify, |
mean, we're not we're not selling the project in two years, per se, we could, but in general,
it's the goal is to refinance. That's good. Then when you refinance at that point, it has cash
flow, and you're going to be satisfied, keep moving, keep it as an asset as a working asset.
Great. Perfect. That's right. Easy enough. So it's easy enough. But the the key really, is to
have enough income enough financing to reach the goal that you want to reach within
the timeframe is realistic to to reach it. So if you figured good, | should be out of this in two
years, get yourself enough money for four. Okay, in case you made a mistake, or didn't
work out the way you had in mind. Great, okay. Okay, can you all cover the difference?
That's, that's what we're talking about. Okay.
JO

JO

JO

JO

Die)

42:52

Can you expand a little bit on what the thought process was, you know, a large long term

project with short term money? Can

42:58

you give me an example? Yeah. Give me an example. Sure. Bob example is a builder by
the name of Bill second door. That was one of the very, very big builder but a lot of in
Canada at this point. Right. He decided, he decided that he was going to build a hotel
without without getting a mortgage. And he had like $9 million. So he figured that would
be I'd be | would be able to get a mortgage loan, but he didn't get the mortgage loan. So
reserved. 9 million ran out at that point, and he lost the property. Great. Really great.
Yeah, yeah, that brings clarity to my question. So | appreciate Yeah. Okay. Very good.
Okay, what's next?

43:35

Next question is from Randy hubbs. Randy, are you on the line?

43:38

Yeah, I'm here. Okay. Go ahead, Randy. Great. Hey, George, our main focus is, hey, our
main focus has been in the multifamily B C class space. But over the past year and a half
or so deals have been more and more difficult to find due to increased demand. We also
heard people like Ken McElroy, mentioning more and more recently, Robert Kiyosaki
saying that they're sitting on the sidelines and not actively pursuing this asset class right
now. On the other hand, I'm hearing others that seem to be excited that they recently
closed on similar investments of this type, I'd like to say a 6% cap rate, which appears to
sound you know, to me sounds pretty risky, because of the potential for further cap rate

compression, as well as predicted rising interest rates.

44:20

So you notice Ross in the year, you've obviously been around around the block and gone
through many and done that, right. Yeah, it's and so you've seen all these real estate
cycles. And I'd love to hear your opinion on this and what your experience has taught you
from the other perhaps similar cycles, sure, but if you can't, the first of all, let's not just talk,

the recycles and recycles, but their and their assets and assets. So it really depends on the
out. Yeah, professionally. | said, Look, this is my lifestyle. | come in early in the morning, but
I'm not working after 530. And | was living with the clients and by law firm, they would just
understand it. If there was an emergency, yes, | would handle it. But only in the event of
emergency. And the very few emergencies that have a timeframe that has to be done
immediately. But once you say | got to do it, then you let the client pick the time and how
you're going to work and the hours are yours, you're a slave, you're making a lot of money,
but you're a slave. And | just chose not to be a slave. And they'd be happy at this point
that | had balance that | had time to do whatever it is that | wanted to do, | could do
sports, | could do vacations, because | adapted my lifestyle that but | had to give up the
fact that I'm going to be making less money than | could make if | really wanted to make
more money, but | didn't want to make more money, it was of no value to me. So it's a lot
of soul searching and writing things down and putting putting paper to it. You'd be
surprised what it would be. If | said to you now how many dollars Do you need now to live
the lifestyle you want on an annual basis? | don't think you could probably give me the
answer. If you haven't put pavement we haven't put a pencil to paper. Yeah, | mean, you
have to see your expenses and what you need to live and you know what your goals are,
you write that down? Correct. And that has to be this for Yeah, | want to buy a certain
amount of insurance. So protect my family, | want to have a nice car or whatever,
whatever it is, | want to take a certain number of vacations, and there's a cost for that. So
you know, put that all of those things that what you would need, what you want to live the
lifestyle you want. This is how much you would need in the way of income, then you figure
out what your what you're actually in commissions, are you there or how far you are away.
And in the interim, if you're not there, then you say well, okay, | have a, | can't maintain
that lifestyle. Now, what ultimately would so | have to figure out | gotta get another million
dollars a year or 2 billion or whatever it is, in order to be there. But | find that most people
don't even do it. They just say | need more money, | need more money, but they don't
know how much. And when you when you get it, you're not satisfied. It’s never enough. It
was not never enough because you never planned those you never put the pencil to the
paper and say, Hey, if | got this, this is I'm satisfied. | early really, fairly early on. Because of
the background. | was really poor. | mean, when | got married, | had $13 in the bank. And |
said at this point | will never be poor again. I'm not gonna we did not pour that we didn't
have stuff to eat. My father was a traveling salesman, and he provided his best he could
but never had the ability to make investments and go or go to movies or whatever it is
just didn't have to do it. So | said I'm not going to be there again. And then when | go
married, | said my wife looked over this, | will work my tail off to see that you're radically
protected. I'll get you the necessary amount of insurance. And we'll eventually buy a
house. We'll do all of this. But you got to have faith it’s going to be and yeah, made it
made it happen. But now when | went for | said this was the first house with 90,009 90.
Because | couldn't afford more
