JO

_)O

_)O

JO

JO

50:16

Absolutely. Absolutely. No question. As I'm saying, I'm saying, Oh, hey, this is this is not a
saint That said, it's relative, it's a good type of investment. You can see assuming that
you're in an area where you have you can get the people to rent. So it has to be an area
where you depending on who you're who your potential renters are, where their workers
that kind of that need a place to live. And this and this is the better buy equivalent than a
building, which they giving the tenant on one floor of a building here, they're actually
house so they now have these like they're they've now have rented a house which is there
and the work work work for them at a number that they can can live with. So you're
providing mobile homes, mobile houses, but they're not mobile, really. It's not bad trailers.
So these are the differences. Most mobile home you're limited in size, or what we set up
with with one of these manufactured homes, they come in all sizes, shapes, numbers of
rooms. So there's more flexibility of getting what what's available and what is marketable.

Okay, very good.

51:27

We have one more question that came in late behind the cut off, Brian. Brian Ackerman,

are you on the line? press star six to unmute. Are you there? Brian?

51:39

His question says he's leaving. So he wanted to know if you could answer the question,

ask the question and recorded.

91:45

Oh, okay. Okay. | see | see the message in the chat window. Okay. Yes. So the question
from Brian is what advice would you have for passive investors for limited partners when
conducting their due diligence, and in terms of choosing to who they choose to invest
with, as it pertains to the deal, the deal structure, the people the market? What are your

thoughts on what kind of due diligence structure the passive investor should

52:16

put in place? Well, passive investors first thing is we look at the track record of whoever is
putting it together, what have they done over a period of time, and mainly also contact

other investors who have invested in prior projects. So if if you don't have a track record,
JO

JO

don't buy since | said, prior projects. But if you have a track record, you speak to the track
record, or they you get all of the information from the body who's, who's making the pitch,
they want your money. And then you check it out whether it was with either broker with
whoever's in the area that will be able to give you the information. And you can get from
the the sponsor who's putting it together, you get a list of he’s a if | wanted to check with
somebody, who would you want me to? Who could | speak to, they'll probably have a
whole list of testimonials. That doesn't mean you're going to use them, but at least it’s a
starting point. And you can use them to say, Well, is there anybody else in the same
position you are that | could talk to? And the more people you have, you get more
information, the less likelinood that you're going to be on a bad deal. So you do as much
as much investigation as you can, in as much detail as you can, depending upon the
degree of the risk. And also what you think is the reward, but it varies deals to deal. But

that should answer his question. All right. Very good. Okay. Okay. What's the next time?

53:30

Yes, so next time we are on for the 27th of March and there will be no meeting in April.
Okay. Because | believe you're away George. And | am going to be on the high seas. Yes,
yes, indeed. Okay. 27th of March. Yes. Okay. Have a good evening. Look forward to talking
to you then. Cheers.

53:56

Okay. All right. Bye for now. There's another monthly edition of the George Ross
mastermind if you've got a question for George, just send an email to ask George at Real
Estate guys radio comm make sure you get your questions in at least two days before the

next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

JO

JO

whoever did the site work while at least has this is paid so that they don't leave the job.
Exactly. Okay. Exactly. Okay. So why if you can do that they can No, there's no, there's no
particular problem when you're ready to to go forward. At that you can get the you can
wait and get Alliant lien waivers, or to the extent that you can't get lien waivers, or you
haven't gotten a lien waivers, but also because the 30 day to get basically 30 days to file
liens, then effectively, what you could do is you get to combine them and combine them
even though they're not they're not the things that are in effect. And you can get a get
insurance, which is really pretty cheap, because it's only the last for 30 days. So that long
enough for the title company to recognize that they did they're not lien so that covers the

question of outstanding liens.

38:14

Okay, so that’s that's an interesting idea. So yeah, so the other part which we didn't talk
about, but but obviously | sent you this in advance is that the title insurer wasn't willing to

insure title until | mean,

38:27

the title insurer, does he insure the title subject to liens, that's all that probably he's not
taking the risk anymore. No lien is he can see the title insurer who writes the title insurer is
subject to existing mechanic's liens or, or liens that could be could come up, which is

which covers up within 30 days period. So the title company has taken that risk out of it as
far as the title company is concerned. So they listed as an exception on the title policy
exception on the title again, they have you covered at that point, by effectively if you have
those lien, if you have these waivers. So either you get the waivers or you have the waivers
or you what but whatever hasn't been waived, you can cover with us the title company
will take at this point because you bonded the partner even the possibility of the leak and

they look to the bottom they look to the insurance company.

39:21

Okay, see what you're saying is we can we can avoid having to wait those 30 days for the

link to expire bond over

39:26

gap for you can get the whoever does the construction at that point to agree to waive or
JO

JO

JO

JO

would expect to get out if they stayed in not a lot but they did but meanwhile they got an
opportunity not to get back to full investment but they get back a certain a lesser amount
because of the income that they've gotten along the way. So you can that's that's another
solution or you get the right to buy about at but at a fixed price plus a bonus if you want

to buy him back was made | got a lot that’s a lot of gave you a lot to think about.

18:45

Alright, so I'm not sure | follow | don't know about anybody else, but I'm not sure | follow
that 100%

18:50

so what are you saying what I'm basically saying and | go | suppose such a you have your
fixed you've had say make three groups of investors this boy ABC, all right. And then you
got Group A that comes in at a fixed rate of return and then they also have a certain
amount of position in the equity not as much the Taz a greater return but more risky has a
lesser a greater return but more risk not but not a guaranteed return first pot could have a
guaranteed return in the second part not necessarily and you can reserve at that point
good that you have the option where somebody has the option to buy out the one that's
got the best position at a bonus. So maybe 110% of their investment or something like
that. Okay, that makes sense. If it turns out to the if it turns out that that was such a
moneymaker then you can say goodbye bought buy it out because | don't want them in
front of me anymore. So | want to get a lot | want to get more secure position or buy out
somebody who's got a better position. It's like a second mortgage you buying at a first
mortgagee Right, right, that type of concept. You because You don't see it the other way.
You never see a first mortgagee buying out the second mortgagee because you got a

better position.

20:05

And that’s not something that necessarily you have to even try on the documents. It's

something that you can do as a practical matter, of course, if it if it arises.

20:13

That's correct, you can do as a practical course. But you can also put it in a document.

Now understand, if you were winning, you give somebody a pretty good read a good
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

Alright, very good. So let's go on to the next question. This next question is actually from
from my business. And we have a project that was entitled, we did a plan to use
development to get the zoning approval. And that permit had a 12 month expiry date on
it, which meant we would need to commence construction within 12 months of the permit
in order to maintain the zoning. Now, we were not quite ready to start the project in its
entirety. So we started the site prep work, the dirt work, so that we would be ready for you

know, full excavation.

36:15

Yeah. So that’s your thing. That's the basically that's what you're saying is your

commencement is land work, correct? Yep. Okay.

36:23

Now we also understand that with the lender, we've got to sign a no work asset affidavit.
lender, why would the lender come from? This is when we go vertical on the construction?
Yeah. So we will have to

36:35

go vertical on a construction but not tie your vertical? You're not vertical on the
construction? We are not yet no. Well, at that point. So all you're doing now is you figure

out who's going to pay for the for the grading and the basic for site work.

36:48

Right now we're finding that out of equity. Okay. Right. So when when the construction
loan kicks in, we have to sign a no work affidavit. What are they What do you mean, no
work affidavit, basically saying that, that work has not begun. So we kind of had this
conflict where we actually have to start work, and we also have to certify that we have

but at the same time,

37 "1Z

while you're going through the same thing, he’s not saying work has been done it took the
site work hasn't been done. Site work will have some amount of site work will have been

done. Yeah. So | assume what the lender would basically be concerned with is that
JO

JO

JO

valuing as is as farmland? Are you valuing it? post

28:56

that as it is? Your value as it has got nothing to do with the future? evaluated acreage, but
acreage is development? What would somebody pay to develop that site? The value of
the use of the value of the land at that time, not what it'll be one is improved, because
that's somebody else has got to pay to improve it. But somebody said, Well, what would
they what would they if they ended up with an outright sale? What would they sell it for?
That's the number you sold it, you'd sell it for $5 million, but you don't have $5 million. So
you're getting a deal which is the equivalent to $5 million either in either in income or in
future growth.

29:32

If they saw the value of the project long term in terms of like failing shares and all that

29:37

that's the but that's you know, that's that's that's part of it, you can do okay, all kinds of
things. Once you once they get the concept as how it comes out. See | have found not
found what's happened in some of my in some of the various transactions I've been
involved with, that it's hard to get an owner who's had a piece of property for a long
period of time such as a farmer Give it up 100%, they don't want to sell it, it’s got they got
an emotional attachment, they want to get the benefit of it. And going forward, but they
don't want to, they don't want to sell it or don't want to get rid of it 100% and take the
risk, too, but they get really something less so that you can come up with a, a concept,
which you can now they can get know that they still own land with a fixed rate of return,
which was not not as equivalent to what it was. And also you can buy you get the right to
do when you do the lease to buy them out to give them cash and get rid of the lease. So
it's a it's created a flexible situation, which you can usually take tailor it to make it
attractive to anyone who's on land for a long period of time farmers or what have you.
That's what the what | found now, | can't guarantee it’s going to work in your situation.
But it's got a good chance of being successful. Okay, great. Thank you. Okay. We got
some very interesting questions this time. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. guy coming
up with some great, great, great ideas, great deal. And there's one here we're developing
with five different owners or six different owners, I've seen it work out very, very well.
Because you created you created something you couldn't do with one piece of land. And

you made a fixed community or an area which is much better if so, the value of being part
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

of a planned development is much greater than the value that will be attributed to each

of the individual parcels.

31:39

And then presumably, since you've bifurcated the asset, that landowner can down the
road, do a financial sale. And then the buyer who's who's just a financial buyer, at that

point, is buying an income stream?

SEsz

That's correct. Because you have flexibility? Absolutely, you can do that. There's got a
fixed income stream is a partial income stream, he doesn't have to buy it, what it can do,
is he can sell off the income stream and still keep the benefits of the transaction going

forward. As part as part of development,

32:12

it doesn't, it doesn't affect the senior position of the lender in any way.

32-15

No, no, not at all. Not at all. And the good question is, and there's no problem, at this
point, you can you can get a mortgage on a ground lease the same way you could get a
mortgage on a piece of land, as long as they're long enough term, written long enough
term ground lease. And the legalities is that whoever is the whoever the tenant under the
ground lease pays all the taxes and repairs and every the whole bit. So it’s a it's a net
lease for all intents and purposes to to the yocto, the owner of the land, and that could be
converted 100% or less percent, depending upon how much risk they want to take. | love
it. That's great. Yep. And what | found is very often, they say, hey, it's not so terrible. So
instead of by selling the land for 100% of its value, I'm basically giving it 50% of the value,
but | got the 50% of my pocket and the other 50% is in the put in the ownership that |
have of the development going forward. So | can’t get wiped out. But | may not get

everything that | could have gotten if | sold it all today. So it's attractive,

2a.20

actually going to just take a moment and share an example of someone who just did this
JO

JO

jo

Let me jump in here for question. Because the one thing that | saw when | looked at this
was if I'm assuming you're talking about financing this with a conventional bank, correct?
Correct. So typically, banks want to see skin in the game, they want to see some equity. So
after that 500,000 is pulled out. Where's the actual equity that the bank would want to
see in the deal?

09:17

Yeah, so that’s a good question. You raise a good question. But at that point, assuming
you're putting a $3 million loan against the against the property is going to was appraised
out at four and more than four and a half million at that. That's pretty good loan to value
ratio. So they may be satisfied. But you're absolutely right. They do want to see equity in
the project. Right. There's another action is there. A new group of certainly, Victor raises a
good question without that they're going to get nervous. Right? So if the banks or the
banks fine with it, and legal legal wise, then there's no issues. It's just a matter of how we
want to structure the the ownership or legally he’s not there, but you really right | would, |
would, | just can’t see a bank going along with it on, on losses happening unless you can
show how great there's going to be great return and look at it this way, still a hotel. So it
depends on occupancy and depends on the area. So there were certain conditions which
have to be in existence in order for it really to be worth or good as a hotel. It’s not
guaranteed. You know, it's not like having no residential where people are going to live
there. This is a hotel, and depends on what's going on in the area. So there's a lot of a lot
of risk that's involved, or there would have to be looked at carefully, certainly by a long
term lender, and should be taken into account and even then they would do that with the
bridge loan. So the concept is great. | think it has to be fleshed out more. And you know,
to see whether or not it works was a good question raised that they want to see the
equity, what equity Have you gotten there? In other words, how much have you paid for
the land? Whatever, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, they're gonna they're

gonna want Yeah.

11:04

Are you asking them? Yeah, so we're paying $1 for the land. Yeah, we brainwash, that's, it’s
$1. Pretty as you get it, is really, the city's very interested in having this project happen. In

fact,

11:20

| understand that. Yeah, that’s great. But now now take into account that that's, that’s
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

14:03

Okay. And typically limited liability set up as a partnership.

14:08

Well, limited liability is a corporation, but it’s it's, it's taxed as a partnership. But it’s it's it’s
really the equivalent of a partnership in all jurisdictions, for the purpose of taxation, but
you can't use it, but they’re not liable as partners as if they would be avoid direct
partnership, because a limited liability company says highly available in almost every

jurisdiction. All right, thank you. Okay,

14:36

that's Ryan, what are you doing in terms of minimum investments? We've 50,000 and how

big is the raise at 1.6?

14:50

Well, okay, that’s that’s that’s not bad, by any means. But one, one thing you can consider
in your investors, and maybe to do Make it more attractive one way or another is think of
making possibly a two tier type of investment. So one tear where a people will put in
money and they get an earl, they get a guaranteed earlier return at a lower rate of
interest, and not as big a share of the pot of gold at the end. And then you have another
tier which is above them, which gets paid later on, but they have a greater risk because
they're taking care of the people below them. And those two tiers do not have to have the

same rate of interest with the same rate of return. Are you with me?

15:34

Yeah. So just balance it out. between the different types of investors based on the return?
Yeah,

15:40

yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it also goes that when you create those two tiers, you may find out
that you can get bigger investors in one of the tiers, or lesser investors in one of the tiers.

No, you may get a bigger investor involved, if you if there’s more security or may also get
JO

JO

JO

JO

for 3 million and then pay back his initial investment. Mike Michael, having I've done some
creative deals, but not like this. So my question is, is there some implication or some
legality issues that we're dealing with, if we were to get to, you know, increase the loan get

up for 500k, more than pay back his equity investment.

06:54

Now, there's nothing nothing illegal that | can think about it, it’s a low it's, it’s it's paying,
what basically, he is furnishing here as a bridge loan. That's what it is. Alright. And for the
furnishing the bridge loan, there's a certain risk that is involved, but but ending up with the
money back in a short period of time, plus a substantial equity is very, very high priced,
that's too high for a bridge loan. Who was that should be because he’s, you know, he's
already got his money back. So | what | would do is either negotiated better, don't give
them the same 35%, or put restrictions on getting the 500,000. So they'll get the 500,000,
assuming the hotel was doing well, or you get out of profits, then he didn't, that's fine. But
he shouldn't get all his money back, at that point, have 35% with no risk, that does a very
rich deal for us as an investor, | would certainly do if he wanted to sell part of it. I'ma

customer. Right?

07:55

So Is that still the same scenario with the project? appraises for four and a half million a

completion, we get

08:05

stronger, in other words, that it's the fact that it appraises at four and a half million is
good. But that's that’s how he gets his equity. In other words, that's how he that’s how he
got it, he got to 35% or whatever it is, for doing nothing. He | mean, he’s done something.
But he, | admit, he’s taking a risk in the interim period, for we all want a bridge loan. But
generally what a bridge loan just gets a higher rate of interest, or at a higher rate of
interest for having the bridge. And then when that when that gets paid, ends up with at
best a minor part of equity, not a huge part equity. Those if the 500,000 was lost, | can see
giving him a 35%. But not he gets a 500,000 back that's that's very rich. Yeah. The

original image jump.

08:56
_)O

JO

JO

and if necessary, could be moved. So that could be moved could be probably, then they
jack it up, move it to another location, put it on a foundation within get the services of the
gas electric and what have you and put it in another community. So it has a greater value,
because it has residual value, don't it's it's, I've seen it work, the work could work very well,
because it has a certain mobility that you don't have in other types of construction. But
the key is also it has to be worthwhile. In other words, you're going to have if you're not
selling the units, but you're renting the units, then you you have to be in an area which
where you can get the renters. But it has a it has a very early traction because there are a
lot of number of people that would like a house but can't afford a house. So this is the
equivalent of our got less than a house but i’m not buying it. I'm leasing it. Right, right.

Yeah, it's got a lot of a lot of pluses.

48:47

Okay. His next question, which is kind of related, is how? My guess we've kind of answered
attempt just reading through his question here, but | think we we've more or less answered

it already here. Okay. That's it for Dr. Shelley's question. Next Now also,

49:06

understand one of the things we deal with here, why are we still talking to the worst
investors in the world? They don't know the first thing about business, they but so that
they, which I'm not saying that's not negative, they just don’t, so you don't go to them for
business advice. However, at this, the answer is yes, they do create a lot of capital A lot of
income and they don't know where to put it. This is a wonderful opportunity to put it in
something which is relatively relatively surf relatively safe and could work out it’s got good
potential, but it’s not something that you're going to end up with major lenders at this
point are going to basically going to fund a manufactured house that you can get income
you can get some banks or companies will put up money on it, but not At the rates that
you would want if it was a full blown house that was sold, the occupancy question is, is the
problem which is, which they have to look at? Because it depends on the degree of

occupancy.

50:12

And | think there are certain lenders that do specialize in manufactured homes.
JO

JO

JO

JO

01:19

Not only that, what about the income that it would bring to the to the merchants in the
area to the restaurants and all of that would do that all their lead to their value? Very
short, very short sighted. And they should have basically gone against against the local
local people and said, This is what it is. They should have just brought as a finished item
and parade whether they like it or not, you know, there was a very big man in New York in
new New York State early on in the rosewood called Robert Moses. Yes. And he kind of got
a lot of things done that everybody said couldn't be done. And he had a classic. He said, If
you want to make an omelet, you can’t you got to break the eggs. And that’s what you
had here. But did they didn't do it. And | think it's a big loss. So Amazon will go somewhere

else and get a better deal.

02:07

One of the big impacts, of course, there's that large city court building in long in Long
Island City. Yeah, yeah. almost a million square feet. That was due to be vacated by
Citicorp next year. And now they've got to fill that up. reminds me a little bit of the task,
you had to fill number 40, Wall Street, similar size building? If you were, you know,

granted, it’s a few years later. But if you were to undertake that task today, how would you

approach it?

02:34

Well, | don't know. I'm just | right now, I'm not that familiar with the marketplace and and
what it is with office soace. So you'd have to find out, is there a big demand for office
space in Manhattan? And if they can't get it into Manhattan, then they would certainly go
to Long Island City or the area? It's a beautiful building, no question about it. So | would
might, what | would do is find out what's going on in the marketplace by contacting some
of the best local retail experts. So leasing experts like CB Richard Ellis or mark as to what
the market availability is, and who's looking for space, I'm really looking for big space. So |
would get the, you know, get a rundown on what the availability is at that type of space
as against protective tenants who are going to need it at a later point in time. | don't know
the answer to that. But that’s what | would check into. And see it's a it's a major, major

undertaking. And it's a it’s a hazardous risk, but also it could have great rewards.

03:38

One of the things that I've noticed, in particular, it's a nationwide phenomenon, but in
JO

JO

return, with a call first out of cash flow in one way or another. That's pretty good. So if you
say, Hey, good, but we got the right to buy you out at the 110% of your equity. Look, I'd
say that's not so bad. It’s like, it's like if you bought a stock, and somebody said, Fine, |'ll
take over the loss. But meanwhile, | have the right to buy it back. If the stock goes double.
You don't and nobody figures is going to go away it goes and grew up that way. They
figured But meanwhile, I've got a safety valve part I'm in and | couldn't Well, it happens if |
if | might get paid more. And if that actually comes to pass, they can want to stay in and
say don't do that. In which case they take a better position or you can renegotiate | love it.
Very good. Good. That's a there's there's a lot of flexibility, a lot of ways that can be done,
all of which work depending on depending on the size of the transaction. And the number
of investors you have and what their appetite is for investing and how much and where.
So it’s a you know, you can make it very, very, very flexible. So that you can you can just
cover everybody if it makes sense to cover everybody, but may not because the
investment doesn't qualify as such. It's too small or juggling. Yeah. The more people you

have to handle, the worse it is. Yeah, of course.

21:41

Okay, next. Let's see. Let’s go to BJ BJ, are you on the line?

21:46

lam. Thanks, Victor. And thank you, George, for your time. You're welcome. We haven't
gotten it yet. We're currently working on a new development project outside of the
Raleigh Durham area in a town called Holly Springs. And one thing we're doing is we have
some families that have had to land in a family for generations, and now they're one
family or lots of families. But for families, that depends on it. We're all farmers now with all
the growth, the growth, it’s hard to spread their lands now. So our idea, we went to the
families and put the idea down, you know, becoming the property locations right in
downtown Holly Springs, right next to some other developments. And they've been
holding on to the land. So we're based on the idea of them becoming me investors and
potential new development project by investing their land into the deal. And then they
would all be able to benefit no other long term growth of the project. The question that we
have now is know for the population are different sizes in a different area, you know,
different areas. So we're trying to figure out in terms of how to value each plot of land in
terms of the value of their investment, some of the land is in, you know, based upon the
mark study, in a profile we did some land is more desirable parts of the project and other
land isn't. And some land is larger than other tracks, we're trying to figure out how to

assign a value to each plot of land as they're equal to everyone so that they can
JO

participate and feel like they've gotten a good deal in the project as well. Okay, so the

question is, how to how do we evaluate each plot? Okay, that's,

23:25

that's a very good question. Certainly. And it's very interesting proposal, or what you're
planning on doing, which | have done in many in not many, but a few instances where |
had, like four or five owners of a choice of adjacent land that have different ideas of what
they should do with the land. And now they're all part of a major, one major development,
which really, which they wouldn't be part of this if it was individual because the land
wouldn't suffice. But meanwhile at that they so but they have greater value if they're part
of a larger idea, which is what you've got here. So right now, the way to do it, and it can
be done this, there were a number of ways but I'll give you give you one or two. First thing
is | would get an appraiser or an independent appraiser to appraise each piece of land as
to what it's worth, on a basis of acreage on the basis of size location the weather can be
built what the what the land looks like. And an independent appraiser. I'm saying again,
so he looks at it and says good your pieces series is four acres is worth x my pieces six
acres is worth more mine is better whatever. But he comes up with a with a number the
number is not important except as a number. So now put others in and he says good the
value of your property is that point is let’s uh let's pick a number we take one point say the
value of your property is $2 million and the one of the ways to solve it. Is the owners of the
property may not be thrilled in selling it outright and making it part of your project. And
that's the end of it and getting a piece of the project based on the value of that particular
property. So saying that they come out now and it will take to take a one on one private
correct goes out your job, your land is worth a million dollars. So it’s worth a million dollars
at that point on a reasonable rate of return figure 7% or 8%. That's a what $80,000 a
year. So now you say it would be $80,000 a year if you leased it out. But if you own it, at
this point, take we'll give you $40,000 a year and the other the other half, you put into
development on a property. So now you you have a guaranteed return on your property
because you have leased it on a long term ground lease for some money, and you've got
equity in the in the property in the toe project going forward. That could be attractive to
Legion, each individual individual owner, depending upon what they want, how rich they
want to go, it’s going to be hard, | think that you will find to get somebody somebody
who's owned a piece of land for a long time to say, Okay, I'm going whole hog into a new
development and | give up the value of my land or not give up the value of land, but I'm
throwing 100% of the land value into the mix. You may be able to get it. And some people
say or even somebody say well, I'll do 70% 50%. But this gives you the flexibility. And
what you can turn out very easy that brings you have one basically each each individual
owner gets a separate lease, long term lease offer go with with with one particular

developer, which will happen to be you on which you pay for certain rents that period of
Ollee

PC-February-2019-Mastermind-Call-with-
George-Ross

qe Thu,9/94:00PM @ 54:16

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

land, question, pay, investors, deal, buy, good, lender, lease, equity, liens, people, area,

manufactured homes, property, appraises, money, project, owners, development

JO

JO

JO

00:00

Hey syndication memory club, it’s time for another edition of the monthly George Ross
mastermind. Good evening, George. Good evening. Victor. I'm excellent yourself. Good.
Good. Good. We've got some great questions this evening. Great. Well, | wanted to start.
Let's start with what's been in the news, obviously, around the whole Amazon departure

from New York. What are your thoughts?

00:27

My thought is at that point that the, basically the city butchered it, and that they should
have the way they presented it. They all right, it looked like Amazon was getting like $3.4
billion from the city well from the state. And that's not true. Well, it happens that they
were not getting gonna pay some taxes. But they would have put in $25,000 worth 25,000
people, and would have been a big help. And | think it's just the what you're seeing is that
they let the inmates run the asylum. And that's what | know, that’s such why Amazon
didn't go there, too. It's It’s a classic example of how not to get business and come into

your areas.

01:08

It's so tragic. | mean, when you do the math, on the income tax, state tax, property tax,
you got it. All right, absolutely. The 25,000 people would pay it's just dwarfs the tax credit.
JO

_)O

JO

JO

fairly recently. And some of you who were at the syndication event this past weekend, or
in the investor summit at sea last year, may have run into a young man named Travis

from from upstate in Nevada. And he did a deal with a very wealthy landowner who owns
1000s and 1000s of acres to lease that land to solar companies. And the deal that he did
is he said, you know, if | can get this land leased and get some solar farms on your you, the
landowner keep 75% of the money. And I'll keep 25 landowner agreed. And they
bifurcated the asset that way. And they've been able to generate a very, very healthy

income stream out of nothing out of thin air simply by doing that deal.

34:10

Yeah, well got over that. But the main thing is, is winning with the solar panels, you're
talking about people sign up for 20 years or something. Exactly. The pay for that is that’s
the way so you got to you've got a long term cash stream, which goes with the property.
So it's a there’s a degree of security there, which you don't find in many other transactions.
But that's a great idea.

3A:31

Yeah. And he's a young guy, 23 years old. He put this all together on his own.

34:35

It's a great idea. Great idea. Yeah. And there's a there's a specific appeal. The specific
appeal is that the people that put in the solar panels will do it, baby, we'll say we'll put it in
for nothing, but you got to sign up for 20 years and here you go, because you're going to
save so much, so much money on your electricity and that's a great sales promotion to
the owner. Lance says, Hey, | don't have to pay anything for it, I'm getting the benefit of
these of a lower electricity for no charge. And I'm not, | don't have to pay for the solar
panels. But the people who do this over panels, effectively, they get benefits from the
government for putting in the panels. In other words, they get they get, so they get part of
the money back right away or along the way. So that's their their advantage Not only
that, they get a cash stream, but they get the get the benefits from the government from
the environment, or a buyer mentalist to cover part of the course. So let's say it's a hell of

an idea. And it's very, very popular, but | don't do it.

35:42
JO

JO

JO

another element in your favor. In discussing this, the carry over the takeout of your of your
bridge lender, you're buying, you're buying the land very cheap and additions that the city
really wants it. Those are big pluses. So as soon as they can also count on it that got out of
it. Since the city is doing it that way that keeping the the hotel occupied in one way or
another is certainly the the city's interest. They don’t want to look, they don't want to look
bad. Right? So they got a lot. That's another another feature, which is certainly for your
benefit, and you should use it in the making the deal with your robe with the bridge lender.
| don't see the taking that bigger risk, to be honest with you. He’s not taking any risk. So
what the hell are you paying? That's a good project. Okay. What are you paying him for?
Good question. Okay. Okay. Good luck. | think you can work it out and do better. Yes.
Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Appreciate that. Great, great feedback, George. Okay.
All right. | love a deal. It gets to the guys from the city for $1. But that's not unusual. The
city wants to sit he's looking at it, then on the benefit on the basis of it benefits are going
to be to the city. Now you can go you can carry that back. If you decide to go along with
the deal. And with a deal New York with the city quarter, which is going to be blank, which
is going to be empty, you may be able to get some benefit some of the benefits from the
city as a result in the event you take it on. Just something to keep in mind. Right, right.
Yeah. In light of the fact that he also lost the Amazon deal. Yeah. Okay, what's next?
Okay.

13:08

Next, we have Ryan. Ryan, are you on the line? press star six to unmute.

13:14

Good afternoon, Victor. Afternoon, afternoon. Hey, George, thank you for your time. So
happy to do it. Perfect. So we have a current syndication underway and have had some
investors asked and wanted to pass this along. And the question is for limited partner
investors participating in a syndication, should they invest in their personal name or

through an entity structure? And what would you recommend for that entity? Sure,

13:42

| would definitely recommend to an entity structure and they could use a limited liability
corporation or partnerships and the equivalent of that. So | would definitely do it through
an entity, the end result is the same except that they don’t have personal liability. And |

would definitely recommend against personal liability.
JO

JO

JO

JO

time in lieu of coming up with the equivalent of what would be the cash? Are you with me?
Or did | lose you? Yes, that makes sense. That's a question for BJ and | waited we waited
before we get through we're not gonna completely pletely true. Okay. So what this does
does is you will find as specially as you go along in the negotiation, one of the problems
that come up is, so each one of these goes, how do | know that got the real value of my
land? As against somebody else? And is a no. So you could have a bit of a fight among the
various owners. How come he got more than | got on a per square foot basis or whatever?
Or my | thought mine was better. | had more acreage, less acreage | was in a better
location. | was closer. So you will eliminate a lot of that with the independent appraisal.
Who's impartial? They can't argue with that. You understand? Yeah, come on. Hey, | didn't
do it. But this is what the independent price and they will buy that because it takes away
the feeling that | got a bad deal. This is what an independent appraiser came up with for
everybody. So nobody basically controlled him. It's not expensive to put to get the
appraiser to do that. It isn't and this takes away the feeling. | didn't get the best deal.
Somebody else got a better deal. Got it. Listen,

28:10

BJ is this land zoned for the project that you want to build on it? Or is it going to have to

go through a planned use development?

28:17

Yeah, we'll need to go through that process. But we feel favorable conditions baseball the

city told us

28:24

So okay, but that's part you can build that into the whole deal. Though as you don't have
to you don't have to go out and buy the land right away or leased the land right away
you're going to say subject to getting zoning or approvals or whatever it is, | want it ready
to go and but meanwhile you've lined up all these owners and they know how they know
they have a use for their land then they what they can expect to get out of it. Sounds

good?

28:48

So the the | guess the only other question is when it comes to valuing the land Are you
JO

JO

JO

JO

a bigger investor, if there's less security depending on how risk adverse they are, or not risk
adverse. But it’s a it’s very often this is a procedure, which is available in syndications
which many syndicators overlook. And they just say, hey, Coke, no, this is it. I'm putting on
everybody comes in with 25 or $50,000. And that's it. As a fixed number, I'm going to sell
you a share of that, and it becomes a stock for that. And you may lose some investors,

because you don't you haven't created any flexibility.

16:33

Yeah, it makes sense. And just depending on what they're looking for, from a return, yeah,

16:37

yeah, yeah. Yeah. And there's nothing to say that this is this is not limited, you Rockabye
to tears, you can make five tears, if you wanted to, if the gain came to that, depending
upon the size of the investment, you know, some comes in for 25,007 50. Some comment
from 100 some comments. So it’s, it’s, it’s like a Chinese menu. And it does work. That's,

that's a great recommendation. Thank you. Yep. Okay. George, if

17:03

you add a class of shares, later in the process, would there be a requirement to go back

and offer a right of rescission to the initial investors?

17:14

Not necessarily as long as the if you've if in fact, what you've done is in the the syndicating
papers, we've set it up, you have reserved that right? No, you're not reducing their share
their equity or your if you if you're going to put another level in ahead of them, then you
certainly have to say you don't have to give it back, but indicates that they could be
diluted, and what happens in the event of a dilution. But dilution with a fixed amount of
new money coming in, though, isn't a question of having made a full exposition of what's
going on. On the other hand, at Apple, yeah, if you haven't done that, then you got a
problem when you go back and you're water somebody at that point, unless you give
them the right to give them the right to back out and get their investment, which is
something that you may not want to do. Yeah, that makes sense. But you can also at this
point, give you another wrinkle in the same way you can provide that in the event that you

do that they do get watered down at that they get bought back at less than what they
JO

JO

JO

particular, New York, is this flex soace, co working space. And, you know, it's growing
dramatically. Today, half of the new leases in New York, are FOR FLEX space, or co
working type space, and great concept. It is a good concept. But frankly, from a landlord
perspective, I'm a little bit skeptical. And my concern is this. You're you know, signing on a
note for a 25 year note or you're maybe signing on your master lease agreement. But the

actual end users only have a 30 day obligation in most cases. Well,

04:13

that's not true. They some of them have it but you can you can get them with a longer
obligation by giving a little better a better deal. So it's not necessary. Some of them may
only want to be for 30 days but someone will go longer. But of course the longer they stay
shorter they got to pay pay more. So let's say that this and then you have to figure out
how long it's going to take you to re rent it which depends on what the market is at the
time but assuming that there is a demand for space which there may will be the flexibility
of space is good. We and a lot of them have done have developed it on a modular basis
where they can basically say if you need 10,000 feet, | can give it to you need 20 | can give
me 20 you need five | can give you five, so that their flexibility as to the space is not
limited. By the physical wall.

05:01

Right, right. Well, it's a fascinating time. And it'll be interesting to see how this plays out.
Yes, it will be. Okay. Well, why don't we move over to our questions? First question tonight
is from Kelly Fisher. Kelly, are you on the line? | don't know which number you are to

unmute you. So, press star six to unmute. There you are.

05:21

This is Kelly. Hi, there. Okay. This is Kelly. Yes, we can hear you. Go ahead. And this is
George. George, pleasure to hear you and participated in this call. Good. So my question
is, is | we're about to close on a purchase on an existing hotel, building a small building,
and we're going to remodel the building and put it back in business. So it’s an older
building. Where construction costs were in West, Fort Stockton, Texas, it's West Texas over
by | know where it is. Okay, Odessa? Yeah. No? familiar Okay, area. Very good. So the cost
of construction is about two and a half million. The one of my key investors gonna have
about a 30% 35% ownership, ownership in interest, is willing to put up the 500k initial
cars, the equity investment for the loan, and I'm starting the construction. But his

requirement is you'd like the loan to be instead of two and a half million, we get the loan
JO

JO

JO

get paid. And that’s how you handle the contract. The people that work there, only want
to do is get paid to get up every day with a way to link i think that i think that probably
could work. Oh, yeah, it says for technical you good. The problem you have is with the title
company. And because what the title company to ensure then Linda gets clean title. And
the title company doesn't want to take that risk because there's a problem with the
potential problem with mechanic's liens, right? Alright, so you can solve the potential
problems with mechanic's liens with the lender. And the lender can hold back the money
to recover potential liens. So no, you'll get all your money until again, you recover the liens,
but you can recover once you've covered bonds. So lots of ways of doing it. As long as you
use the amount of liens that you've done on the work at that point is is could be could be
fixed that you know what it is then based on the contracts that you did for the work. This
is not an unusual situation, by the way. Because very, very often says you got to put a hole
in the ground in order to make it to just show you did something. Yep. Otherwise you lose

your permit. And that’s a serious problem.

A3:22

Exactly, exactly. Okay, no, that's very helpful. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Good. What's next?
Next? Do we have Dr. Eric Shelley on the line? You can press star six to unmute. Dr. Shelley,
are you there? | know he was seeing patients this evening. So what | may do is ask the
question on his behalf, and then he'll he may join a McGraw Hill. Listen to the recording.
So So Dr. shefali, is partnering with an operator who is buying manufactured homes on
acreage at a fairly discount discounted rate. He's buying manufactured homes, are they in

place? They are not? | don't think so.

44:05

Yeah. So you buy advisedly, say manufactured homes. It's a it's a prefab home that's put

the delivered to a site and put on a foundation. Correct? Okay.

44:15

But then they're being they're being we they're being renovated. And the idea is to
basically create turnkey rentals. And so he's selling them as turnkey rentals to investors.
And he is creating a derivative product, which is a note on those properties. And then he’s
joining the property management for all of the properties. He's looking to scale up. And so
he's run out of his own capital and is looking to bring Dr. Shelley in to help him with the
capital raise. Right. So what they're trying to figure out between them is how does Dr.

Shelley get paid in exchange for doing this and what's a reasonable share for him to do
JO

JO

JO

be asking for as a as a percentage of the overall venture, recognizing, of course, that you
can't compensate someone for, you know, raising money per se. So there's got to be some

other reason for him to be involved in this, whether it's

45:15

assumed he got the, from what you're telling me there's a there's a cash flow, there's a
cash flow that's going to come from the units from the rent. So that's how you that's how
the doctor gets paid part of it doesn't have to get all of it by any means. Sure. So he gets
it gets a certain rate of return for whatever it is the taking keiki gets 80% of the the
income and 20% goes to the to the manager who's putting it together, runs over the
property and does all of the work. And that’s fine, because he's got that's, that’s the equity
that's involved, for the people for the guys doing the development and the management.

And then the doctors get the gets a what's left? There's nothing wrong with that.

46:00

Right. So | guess what | think what he's trying to figure out is what's a fair split? So, you
know, if, let's say the sponsor share whatever the sponsor share is, we'll call that 100%.
Yeah, what percentage should go to the boots on the ground that's doing the work? And

what percentage should go to the folks who are raising the money to make this possible?

46:24

Well, | said, | would say the, the bulk of it goes to the people that make it make it possible,
we're putting the money, the one on the boots on the ground, so that you can figure out
what's the boots on the ground worth, you know, if you had to go out and hire somebody
to service all of these units, how much would you pay him? Right? That's what that
basically would be what would go to the party who puts it together. And in lieu of that,
and payment of cash, and so he gets a share of the income. So if the income is greater, he
gets more, if the income is less, he gets less, and that's fine. So you want to want to give
an incentive to the the guy who's doing the renting or the manner or the the management
to get the highest amount of the highest amount of income per unit, because he gets it
back. Instead of getting a fixed return, he gets a share in the profits, a share of the total
income that | would say is the nature of a somewhere around 10 20% would make sense.
Okay. So something in that way, that makes sense. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. Also,
another thing, this is, it's a hell of a good investment. And those I've seen a lot of these,
and they do turn out to be good investments, as long as the units basically have a certain

life expectancy. So it's not a trailer park. In other words, it's a unit with basically could do
JO

JO

not to lien the property based on the that they know they're going to get paid. So
effectively you have the money or you put aside the fund and you say good, but now you
you waive the right to lien and we have set up a fund as to how you're going to get paid
from your equity capital. So they waive the lien, right? knowing you're going to look at a
fund or the alternatives. You can also do what it said that you can bring insurances that
they're going to get paid, but which they already waive the liens. So you don't have to go
through the 30 day period to figure out if it’s going to happen or it's not going to happen.

40:04

| think that's a very good idea. We're definitely definitely going to pursue that with with

the lender and with the title insurance. See if they'll accept

40:12

the tender is is is lenders of leaving he? He's going to get a clean title. Yep. He's like a
clean title. No question about it. In other words, every doesn't get cleaned title. What
you've done is to the extent that there are mechanic's liens you've protected and by giving
a bond, you're given a little lender, a bond protecting against the mechanic's liens, so that
the liens if the liens are filed, the bonding company puts says we'll pay them in lieu of the
lien. So that covers the waiver of the lien, a lien is only going to come up with if the party
didn't get paid. So it’s not a really a risk. It's a technical risk, but not a real risk. But you
can work it out with the title company, and as a lender, because lenders not hurting the
title companies not hurt. You're not asking it that way your problem would come up, is if
you ask the title company to insure good title. That's where the problem would be.
Because they say, Well, | can’t insure good title because there are there's a potential
mechanic's lien problem on construction at this point. How do | solve that problem? You're
back to the same way at this. You can solve it by putting up a bond. However, when you
call the title company example, they don't they don't like to do the work and with the
bonds, they say, either easy. I'm not subject to it. You've got good title except for
mechanic's liens. Or you don't, but you can do it with a lender. There's no it's it’s it's
technical problems. not serious. not serious. Right, right. Right. Okay, so what technical
then anything, anything else this | understand where they're coming from, but you can
cover it really easily with a bond, to the extent that you haven't got waivers. And it's not
expensive. When | say it's not expensive, because it only becomes expensive in the event
they filed, they they they don't give up. They don't get paid, right? Because when they do
get paid, you get a lien waiver before they get paid. So whoever does the contract, you
say, hey, if | pay you, you're part of you're paying the part of my payment is the fact that

you got to say you did the work, and you're waiving your right to Leto lien, otherwise you'll
