JO

right. Thank you. Have a great evening. Okay, take it. Alright, you too. Cheers. Bye for now.

56:06

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful

syndicating
JO

we ever want to grow. And the way we look at it as we look at the strength of the deal,
and then work backwards to come up with a market rate return. And wherever the chips
fall in ownership, they fall. And we're kind of being told that, you know, that's not really
the way that the market wants to see the deal. And, you know, we haven't had any, like |
said, we haven't had any problems raising capital for our projects. yet, but we're just
wondering if this is a really serious challenge, or or, you know, ask the guy said, Yeah, you
want to do what, you know, the whole byte is a grape, or do you want a big bite of the

watermelon?

43:26

Where you, | hope you will listening to the conversation we had before. Yeah, there there
should be. There should be maybe five or six different phase different deals with different
differences scenarios, say, hey, you take a piece ego from Group A, Group B, Group C, it’s
not covering all the deals, because they're different. And then the return is different. Three,
the ROI is different. The potential risk is different, the amount of work that has to be done
by the by the people that run it is entirely different. So it's, you can't make a generality.
and say, This is what the investors are looking for. The answer is no, they're not they
they're you got to break it down more. It's rate of return is long term growth. It's not it's
there's risk, it’s, it's ROI at that point, it's it’s management, the whole bunch of things. And
then you create different slices of transactions, which would feed fill those needs, but by
themselves, they would stand those if it was one transaction that you were doing, that's
fine if there were five of them, and they're all and they're all similar, that’s fine. But once
you start getting into diverse transactions, that’s where the problem comes up. And
somebody said what makes that | wouldn't go in there for a 10% investment. Right? Okay,
| want more say fine but you but was but then you get bigger risk. How much do you want
you want to us bigger risk, I'll give you more bigger risk, but understand that what are the
hazards that go with the bigger who bigger risk? So it's, it's now not dealing with one size
fits all. That's the problem. It's not one size fits all. It's the investors and what they have in
mind go can go into different different pigeonholes, and they pick and choose what it is
they want. And you can, can basically meet their needs by saying, Okay, how about this, I'll
give you the halfway How about this return, you can go well, the less risk that's involved
for them than the lower return, the greater the risk, the greater return. So you have to now
do an analysis of the of the risks, and what the returns are, and then what the what they
want. So maybe we've got let me Okay, your work | did well, on this deal, don't tell you
what you get in out of income, I'll pay you, I'll pay you, you get the first seven or 8% of
income. And then | take out mine in my share. If there's anything left over, we split it in one
way or another. But at this, don't tell me you want 15% if that's what you're getting in our
priority to a priori return, before | see anything, you get your share, you get eight you get a

share, maybe it's less than you we wouldn't want. But meanwhile, you have the priority
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

20:19

it's a friendly termination. One, that's fine. If it's not a friendly termination, then you got a
different set of rules. And certainly, if it's something which he's done or something, when |
say that this be smart to the company, or oil, or the dad on it, or he's convicted of a crime,
or he's up for a crime, or you've got sexual harassment, or anything along those lines,
yeah, that's a different ballgame that he's not entitled to because what he's done is he’s
decreased the value of the company based upon his his, on on the stain that he’s put on it.

And they can understand that and they can write the papers.

20:55

Two times the data is this mutual four times this? | thought you were a one time that | do.

21:02

Okay, but hey, you can pay it over a period of time. Well, you | did, you're saying two
years, | do what you want. I'm just saying it can be paid over a period of time. Now, you
can also you can also put another wrinkle on it, that if it's something that you do, as a
result of the termination, then is a short period of time. If it's something he did wrong, then
there's a longer period of time. So yeah, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. But it’s a it’s a it’s a
it's a great idea. And this is the way to get it, get somebody good working for you and
working for him because he's got a piece of piece of the deal. That's great. And we both

make money. Yep, it’s good. It works. Thank you. You're welcome. Perfect. Okay.

21:52

Let's go to sup sup. Are you on the line? Good evening, George bunion. Victor. Hi, there.

Hey, thank you for taking my call. | apologize. | have a long question.

22:03

So lam running into a bit of an issue with my existing investors in terms of the types of
deals that they want me to present to them. Currently, | give them a choice between
investing in two options in the short term private lending. There's long term real estate
syndications, the short term private lending is typically one to two years, long term deals
are typically five to seven years. And more often the last couple of months. | think just with
the investors seeing some some uncertainty in the market, they've been asking me more

and more about what my thoughts are on the economy. And they they're kind of asked
JO

JO

JO

JO

40:08

we continue to grow based on our our splits. You know, one example was, when you say,
based on the split, let's put this way it's the split basically is how much is what they're
giving you is part of it is necessary in the organization. Let's put it this way, if they're giving
you effectively 90%, of what you're what the money required, they're entitled to a
substantial share. They're giving you 90% of the total equity. But are they entitled to
90%? No, but they're entitled to some others do something great. However, if you're only
giving a 10% or 20%, then what they what they get is, is entirely less. So you say how
important in the overall scheme and the overall project is what they're doing. And you get

reimbursed based on the importance.

41:03

Okay, so let's just say, for for the sake of this conversation, we found a deal that we

bought at a 40 cap this year, or 2018. Literally, yes, four zeros a 40. Cap deal.

41:17

What do you mean, 40? caps? Explain. | don't know what you're talking about how you

were talking, saying like only 40 cap,

41:24

like, a little more specific. If people buy like 7% cap rate deals. So the noi divided by the
cap rate is devaluation? Yeah. So people buy people buy, you know, seven, eight cap
properties, and, you know, turn the screws on the operations and make them perform a
little bit better. Yeah, we, we bought a deal on a 40% cap rate. So the you know, the, you
know, the deal is producing a significant amount of an ally, is performing really well. And
what really triggered this conversation was, you know, we're not going out and trying to
put, you know, a bazillion dollars under management, we're trying to go out and find
really juicy good deals, and are putting a lot of effort into that. That quest. And so when
we find these deals, we feel we don't have to give up as much equity. In those deals, even
though the limited members might be bringing in a majority of the capital, if not all of the
capital, because the deal is so good. The deal is going to deliver our investors probably
anywhere between 30 to 40%, annualized cash and cash returns for the project. And, you
know, we only gave up 20% of the deal to the capital, and we funded it, that was fine. But
we got to do a pretty nice philosophical conversation with one of the potential investors

that, you know, maybe we're not, you know, we need to be given up more of our deals, if
JO

JO

you want to get from A to B on the on the bridge to get your A to B and five years or three
years, when you got from A to B, | get my money back at What sir? What kind of a rate of
return | don't care what some type of benefits that's, but that's a London and there's
lenders fine you treat them as lenders only registered is getting their money back or
getting the rate of interest. They're not interested in whether the deal was extremely

successful and not because they have no interest in the of the final outcome.

32:01

Right. And there was one thing he said | said, | thought there was a lot of wisdom in that. It
was subtle and something | realize I'm not doing as often as | should you mentioned as far
as kind of being the financial planner unofficially to the investors |, | have those detailed
conversations with them upfront. And then when they do do they want to reinvest, | don't
have as much of a detailed conversation and they're just asking me what my thoughts
are, then they're kind of

32:29

okay, you bring up a you bring up a very, very important point. And one that did that, on
which the difference between somebody that muddles along and somebody has a great
success is and that is communication with your particular investor, which means
periodically, you're going to have to speak to us speak to him or send him something, hey,
here's what it is, what do you think it is you happy, as is how you have you use your
income position change and all this, that that has a two fold benefit. The first benefit is
you find out what they have what they're doing. The second thing is they liked the idea
that you're interested in what they are doing, and maybe can come up with something. So
the personal relationship comes to the fore in that type of a situation. So what you now
are personally involved with that investor, in addition to being financially involved with the
investor, and find out what their needs are, and they can change those he changed me
For example, somebody also has a windfall somewhere. And they were previously an
investor. This is I'm good for for $200,000. And all of a sudden, they're good for 2 million,
but you didn't know that. Yeah. Without having the communication. So you periodically
Yep. So hey, is what | changed. In order to do that you have to have a baseline. The
baseline is the the initial part you say is where they are is where they want to be, how
much are they looking for as an info passive income, how much you're risking what the
what the nature of the risks are. And then you come up and you solve that in the first
instance by setting it up, and then periodically, but that's going to go going back and
saying and figuring out did does it still suit the same need? Do you need more money? Do

you have more money? has more your expenses gone up? Are you sending kids to college?
JO

jo

What are they? And that's critical. But what a financial planner does? And once you have

them, you got them forever? That's gold.

34:28

| have not been doing that as definitely not as often as | need to that's,

34:32

that's cool right there. No, actually most of most of them don't. Most of them don't. But |
know at this point, like when we're going into financial planning or not, not not my own
financial planning, but probably got in got involved with the need for a financial planner
maybe six, seven years ago, eight years ago. But my lifestyle eight years ago was entirely
different. My income was different. | was still working if it were making a lot of money. But
as time goes on, it’s not the same now, and then the retirement phase. So if you look at
how we split up my portfolio 10 years ago, and how you split up, this is different, it's just
older, you know, it's, it's more up to date, | don't take the same risks, | don't want to take
the same route, we're looking more for passive income. And I'm looking for something at
this point that has better tax benefits. It's a it's a whole whole pot of trash of
inflammation. That is, that does change over a period of time, not every week or every
month, but over maybe in a year, or what have you saying the same thing. And then you
can see that the what we what we had in mind, this is what happened is this, your risky
part of your portfolio, made the following return, whatever it may be, what was less than
we added this muito, we're gonna make 12%, we made 8% 6%. And the part that was
passive at that point, it turns out to be you got more or less, so that you can, it can be
readjusted at the end of a given year. So this is what we thought it was going to be. And
this is what it actually was. Now, what do we have to do for the next year. And when you
have that information, and you're speaking to the particular investors or clients, that’s
gold, as far as you guys keeping, keeping them there, and what have you. And he's advice
that gives them, you know, they can advise what's changed, what happened, | sold this, |
didn't | did whatever this thing has happened and they have to go, they have to be
readjusted over a period of time. But the only way you can readjust them is to find out
what happened in their mind that wouldn't so you could make changes as you get older
that like | always say no, at my age, | don’t buy green bananas. But you know, that's when
you're 90, you don't have to. So that's that’s why but but the the line of communication
will your investors, if you properly you nourish that, you will have them forever, and you
will also get more because they will talk to their friends, they will talk to other investors,
the fact that you really care about them as people, not only the money that they're going

to invest is is your that's your calling card. Great advice. And fantastic questions. | really
as changed. No, that doesn't mean it's dead. It just means that it changed. And it's not
going to be business as usual. Now, However, having said that, at this, there are golf
courses, and there are many of them from what you have here. They can still financially be
be great, depending upon how much you pay for it right? Now you pay for it. If you're
buying it as a golf course, you're going to be paying a lot less than if you bought it for
vacant land, of course. So it's a question of how long at this is it going to happen now, if
somebody puts in a put buys a golf course, and can run it as a golf course and not lose
their shirt. In other words that they can make it in, they can entice them, they can entice
members or they can entice people to play there, then at a period of time, that will be a
great deal because they land banking and the land will only appreciate in value over a
period of time. The question is when who knows Now having said that, there will come a
time when you're going to they're going to have whoever it is, is going to have to go back
to the municipality and say, Hey, it doesn't work as a golf course we want to build
building, we want to build housing on it. And then a great a great, a lot of it depends on
what's going on. Also, it depends on what the zoning is, know what it was community say,
how restrictive is it? So usually, when you have the restriction on land, where it’s green
space, and what have you, that's for a period of time, and you get tax benefits and what
have you. But if in fact, the golf course is going to go is there, and there's gonna be
nothing on it, because the golf course Can't they can't survive, then you go back to the
municipality, say, Hey, we got all this acreage, but there's nothing like you want vacant
land, what good is that? So they'll have to say, Well, what do you because they want to
get taxes they want to do. So although they might not have a plan. Now, it depends on
what the circumstances are at the time, but they can work out all kinds of things. So
maybe it turned into a nine hole golf course, or you do senior citizen housing or whatever
is required at the time, which would be feasible and acceptable in the community, as a
community as a community project as a as a good use of land, although it’s, it's
hazardous, because you it's the general tendency is no, let's not do it. But then you say,
Well, what do you want? You are vegan land? Is that what you want? What No, nothing on
it, with no taxes. So it's, it’s it's there’s has to be a reckoning. And it does work. | mean,
depending on the time circumstances change, but the the powers that be in the
government land, and the government or what have you, ultimately are far are forced to
do something more creative than have vacant land, a golf course that doesn't survive. But
it depending on who's there at the time, and what political power you have, and what you
offer, it. Basically, it can be risky, however, how about maybe taking part of the land and
turning it into a park giving, so giving the city or the minister or the county or the
municipality, whoever it is something that they really want a lake apart, where people sit
down apart or small, whatever it is, you have, may have to throw something into the pot
that's desirable. So instead of having a golf course, which is no longer a golf course, in
vacant land, we'll make something that's attractive for the for the people that people will

like, and in exchange for that will let you build built housing, under certain restrictions
JO

JO

JO

buying it cheap, probably cheaper than even under you're almost cheaper than
undeveloped land, right? Of course, not saying it this way. What you have here is you have
a golf course, which you could probably which you which you're talking about what you
could probably buy for X dollars, let's put a number on it. You could buy it for 10 million, it's
just a number. I'm not putting anything out. But if you if you had the right to develop it, it's
worth 460. That's the good | said. So now Can you can you wait between now what can
you do between now and the time you're going to develop it? But the potential is there.
And it's just a question of how you're going to see when you're going to see it and
whatever the circumstances are at the time, and they can change. So it's it's it’s a risk, but
he's still buying land cheap, with arbitrary restrictions. Very powerful. | love it. Yeah, it's, it’s
great, especially this one, what you're talking about is the fact that this is this is the best
golf course. So what's going to happen is, as the other golf courses don't survive, those
members are going to come to your golf course, because those still there certainly a
number that want to play. Right. So you're going to have greater longevity. And if you
were number four on four golf courses, | wouldn't say it's not nearly as good as if you're
number one on four golf courses by a longshot, because that's where you get some
additional members to the end, which will bring in the revenue necessary to run a runa
run the facility and cover the expenses of the land. It’s a good it's a hell of a play. It's a

long term play. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Long term play.

17:02

Okay, this next question is from CSU, you're on the line.

17:06

Hi, George, I'm looking at bringing on general manager more so as a strategic partner, to
help with our construction company. I'm more of a sales and marketing guy, and | need a
construction General Manager to help out. At the same time, | recognize that he's going to
build long term brand value by sourcing reviews from clients, and | want him to feel a
sense of ownership when he's fighting for the company. So I'm looking at bringing on a

partner with restricted shares. What kind of terms would you say restricted shares? What

17:42

do you mean restrictions, your watch worth restriction? | don't want | don't want to give up

control of the company.
JO

JO

itself, but to secure the border and put Rick who everybody wants it. The Democrats
wanted it before. when when when when Obama was there at that point. Yeah, you all
said we got to do it. We got to do it got though they never did it. Now, all of a sudden,
why won't they do it? Because Trump is president. Right? Right. So it’s a it's a personal
vendetta, that's what it is, which is, which politics should never get to, but so much for
that, what do we got to talk about? Okay,

06:40

so this one is a very interesting one. This is actually one that's happening in my local
community, and it pertains to local golf course, one of four golf courses owned by the
same operator. And, of course, you know, golf continent wide has been dwindling. | know,
you were an avid golfer for many years. But there aren't as many young golfers coming
into the sport as, as there are people retiring out of the sport. So a lot of direct a lot are
struggling. Now, this particular golf course, is the best performing probably in the entire
city. And when it was, when it was built, it was part of a land deal. Where as part of the
entitlement for building the residential subdivision 40% of the greens 40% of the land was
reserved as green space, of which the golf course made up a major portion. Yeah, so the
owner, actually, you know, if you were to sell it as a golf course, you might make | don't
know, three $4 million. If you sell it as development lead, you might make 50. | understand

completely, why they would want to sell it now,

07:43

in this required, but they but they used to get from the development races as a major
jump. Oh, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. from God from golf course to some type of
development is a is a major leap, roll, a major leap with all kinds of ramifications and
difficulties. But so big, the concept is good. And as it turns out, what's happened is far as
golf is concerned, it's not that there are less golfers dealing with the interest in golf hasn't
diminished. What has diminished is the price that it costs to pay to belong to a club, that
at that point, a lot of other people say it’s not worth it, | don't play that much golf, why
should | pay X number of dollars to belong to a club or to or to get to get time. So that
that's happened, also the fact that it lasts so that the requirement is you got to take at
least four or five hours. And a lot of the younger people saying | don't want to be away
from my family for five hours. And the or the spouse says don't go, you know, spend more
time with your plan. So the time commitment plus the monetary commitment has
diminished. And you don't see that much golf course golf clubs used to the social or social
places for socialization, right? Not anymore. That has dropped off the sand if | want to go

to a restaurant, go to a restaurant, or it’s so the whole concept, basically, as has checked
JO

JO

JO

JO

to own it at a point in time. So you could bring it in early or you can bring it in late or close
it yourself and then go out and look for investors. The more money that you have invested
in the transaction, the easier it is to sell to to other investors. The more skin you have in
the deal the best, the better. They like, right. Okay, that makes sense. So my suggestion to
you is to tie up whatever it is that you want, with us figure out if the worst set, could you
buy it on your own? It just have this for it. That’s probably the best set that you can buy
with other people.

5A 32

So try and come up with some interim find a plan. Gotcha.

54:36

Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. And the way to get the way to get the money from your
investors, you get as much as you want if you don't take it. If you don't want it and you
don't take it and you refuse to take it or you're limited at that point. They will beg you to
let them into the deal. Right? However you go out and say this is what | need to make the
deal they'll they'll they'll hang you up and because they figured So as long as them on the
other hand, if you show them you don't need them, then definitely do, they'll become very

amenable to investing. It's a psychological factor.

55:09

Yeah. So as long as we have a strategy to close these properties should go ahead and

purchase as many as we want ahead. Yeah, yeah.

55:17

Well, if part of your strategy is you know, there’s nothing wrong with dropping a deposit.
Make sense? If it if it doesn't come in other words, if the only way the deal works is did you
get all your financing together? You don't get it together. All right. So | | put up our |
dropped and put up an option price. Okay. That's a yes. Thank you very much. Specially
the option price maybe maybe it's 10% of the total acquisition or what have you. But
there are so many so many variations, depending upon the risk. If it says a great deal and
you want it yourself. What do you care about investors? Okay, very good. Thank you,
George. Okay, you're welcome. Okay, | guess what roofer tonight we are. Thank you. We'll

talk again next month. Great. Okay. Keep the Good. Keep the questions coming, Victor. All
JO

| think it’s terrible. | think it’s totally unnecessary. But it’s it's purely a political play. And the
less the democrats basically come up with something, it's going to stay for a long time,
because Trump can't can't give up without losing the presidency. It's as simple as that. So,
you know, there's a lot of like going on. And he offered to sit down with the democrats and
talk about everything, anything they want. And then so far, there's no response, right?
There's the open, the government will talk, which will never happen. They open the
government and they'll never talk. So it's a it's a power play with plain and simple, which is
unfortunate. You got the 800,000 people at this point that are being suffered, because the
government is the parties can't agree. And that’s terrible. But you got to look what you
got going on in England. So we got another thing going on over there closer with a party
can agree. Absolutely. So it looks like it looks like a time of politics, which is unfortunate
that so many people are going to get hurt. But hopefully, you know, somebody will break
will break it and come forward. And the way they'll do it is they'll have to get away from
strict party lines. And | think they will. Because | think very unhappy people unhappy
groups in in either camp. Is there a pathway? Yeah, there's lots of pathways, but there's no
pathway, she has to sit down and talk right. In other words, he said, according to Pelosi,
the only way she will talk is if he stops shutting down the government and MIT stop
shutting down the government. She’s one as you don't know. So he's got nothing to talk
about. The wall or the barrier is just a is a talking point. But But basically, at this point that
would go he ran on that. And that's one of the main things and they're willing to give part
of it. Except they don’t want to call it a wall. They don’t want go there. That is that there.
This is a game of chicken. Yeah. as to who's going to give up first. And unfortunately, at
that point, he can't give up. There’s no way he can do that. And still still breathe, breathe
and retain the presidency, because then he's giving away everything to his base. And
there's no reason she they should sit down and talk. Nothing. We're only talks you can ask
right? Ask for the moon or the stars, at least sit down and ask for but not to show up and
not to go into sub a mall. And they just, that’s it’s Terrible. Terrible. And | think it’s a it's a
it's a terrible thing for the United States government. Because we don't have a
government we have we have numbers of three, three place to car to in Congress, which
are at odds, and they don't they don't talk there's no way How can you govern? If you
don't talk, you gotta use a lot of given taken, there's no, right now there's no given take,

which is unfortunate.

03:34

The impact is far bigger than just the 800,000 is about 2.7 million government contractors

that also haven't been paid
JO

me some crystal ball questions, and just share them my honest opinion that | think the
times are good now, but | don’t know what it’s gonna be like, with whoever the next

President will be. Okay. Come on. It's

22:51

of course, the who's who's got a crystal ball. Right? You don't know. You don't know the
answer to that one. Exactly, by any means. But what | what | do find that very often, but
number of syndicators, they, they they don't create, they don’t know what the market is for
an individual investor. And they don't they just figure, okay, you're ready to put in
$100,000. But basically, for something that makes money. That's that's not, that's not
specific enough. So a lot of the syndicated loan syndication exam, is they've created a
Chinese menu, many who say maybe five different entities. One is some of which has got
short term investment with short term in and out. And that’s what that's what they focus
on others that are long term with with potential, some that have a higher, better higher
return rate of return and others have a lower rate of drift, high risk, low risk. So it really is a
question of being able to analyze and understand what it is that the particular investors
want. And this is this but a whole new field with has religious grouping created or is
created over the last | don’t know put in maybe 510 years was become very, very
prevalent this and that is the necessity for financial planning. In order to have financial
planning, some find the financial planner, in their case, maybe you have to know what
their what the your people want. It depends on their age, it depends on the income, it
depends on where they want to be in the future. So long term, short term, and it’s not all
or or nothing, they can be they can take a little piece of many different types of deals who
could be a smorgasbord of investments. So say | put 1015 20,000 Naira 100,000 now what
what in order to know that you have to know what what is free income that they that is
available that they could invest and what period of time they Be willing to invest it for and
then break it up into individual individual shots. So there’s a communication question. For
your investment, there’s no use when you say, this is a short term deal, right? What is your
short term deal? It's something that we can talk about that all day, a short term deal
could be, could be one one month, could be three, two years, three years, four years, it
different idea as to what's a long term lease, you can do the same thing. It could be,
something's going to happen in 20 years, something happens in five years. So it the
specifics are created by the the syndicator, who puts together and says here, here's my
package, here's have the package of these deals, these are risky deals. But the end result,
the end result is that if you go into these deals, two things can happen. Number one, is you
can lose your entire investment. Number two, is you can double your money in five years.
Okay, that’s, as long as they understand that. So yeah, it’s not for me, or | would assume

they're not. So it's like, the it’s what the financial investors do. And I'm basically looking at
JO

JO

my financial investor, which is a, which is a big company, each year, they've gone on and
say, good, what's, what's your financial state? How much income? Are you look, do you
looking to make state income? At this? Are you looking to take risks? Or not? Are you doing
what are you What's your future planning? | will. So they having all this information, they
said, okay, we would put 20% into solid stuff, when we put 15% into more risky small
Capra things, and some in bonds, and, and there's diversification of, of the investment to
meet your particular needs. In order to do that, you have to know what they where they
are. So | would say, you gotta, you got to sit down with these people have some kind of a
survey, and they got to give you straight information. Not that they're making an
investment, but they tell you what their appetite is, on a specific on a more specific rather
than just general. And the problem is the jet that you have a tendency to talk more
general. So we talk about a short term deal. What What is that, that without knowing the
specifics, that could be a big difference between the parties as to what what is meant by
a short term deal. And same thing long term, too, how about return, you can have a fixed
return with some type of an advanced in advance payments. So you got a priority of
payment. That's so if you get a priority of payment, you can't get as much as the guy who
takes the risk, and doesn't exist and sits after your priority. So it's a creating a Chinese
menu, which would satisfy your investors, at least in in various ways, because they now
can pick and choose what it is that they might want. And if you put it into different
pockets, which different 10 different entities or different suits, that's fine. So you may have
six or seven different funds that have to do different different things. And each of your
investors could say, Okay, give me a piece of this piece of that piece, or that’s not what |
want. And as a result, having having that you become much more attractive to them,
because they have a choice, you then are forced to take what you gave, they can make

their choices to what's available. And that's

28:27

Yeah, yeah. And there's so now it's not, you're stuck with what's been done? No. Is it you
say this is it, this is this particular thing? Well, I've got now | got residential housing, in in
sub substantial neighborhoods, but they have a great rate of return. And they position
that | have great housing in great neighborhoods with less of return and you put them in

the same pot. It's not the same pot. So the question first thing, but entirely different.

28:55

Question for SAP, apart from the difference in duration, what are the Are there any other
differences? For example, is the short term still equity investing? Or is it debt or

mezzanine? Are there other differences between those offerings?
Ollee

PC-January-2019-Mastermind-Call-with-
George-Ross

g@ Jhu,9/94:00PM @ 56:22

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

investors, deal, golf course, money, land, good, point, short term, lenders, return, buy, question,

property, risk, people, george, pay, years, equity, sell

JO

JO

JO

JO

00:00

Hey syndication memory club. It's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:06

Good evening, George. Good evening. How are we this evening? Very good yourself.
Great. Great. Great. Excellent. | got the list of questions today are great. Yes. Yeah. Some
great questions this week. A lot of really some really good ones. Yeah, yeah. I'm looking

forward to tonight's call. Yep. Okay. I'm ready when you.

00:24

Okay. Well, welcome, everyone. This is our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross.
George is most known for his role in the Trump Organization. But before that, he worked
for Sol Goldman for 10 years in Manhattan, did 702 deals for him? author of two books in
business for over 60 years, taught at the law school at NYU for over 20 years. And we're
just thrilled to have you with us, George. Good. Glad to be here. What can we do? We're in
an almost unprecedented time here. Definitely in our uncharted territory. What are your

thoughts on the government shutdown?

00:58
JO

JO

JO

appreciate it. Yeah, they're good, good. And don't be afraid to split it up. In other words,
you can have four different short term deals, one year, two years, five years, whatever it is,
up to, you know, what I'm saying doesn't have to be short term have to be less than five
years or less, could be one year. | mean, if you're maybe maybe you want to buy and sell
fixer uppers. So we buy a fixer upper, we'll buy it, we'll buy a cheap at that point, either in a
foreclosure or was underwater, we'll build it up and sell it in six months. Okay, if that's your
business, goodwill, how much are we going to do that? That's fine. But you may not. But
that's not something that you're going to go into package with, with investment
properties that are gonna last over a longer period of time. So even then, | will tell you, as |
say, you have a Chinese menu, you can pick whatever you want. Fantastic. Thank you.
You're welcome. That's, that's a good bit of No, that's a good bit of information for you. If
you develop it properly. At that point, you will you will point out that you increase your

rate of success tremendously. And I've Okay, what's next?

38:26

Okay, next. Hello. | realized | was muted. | don't mean. What's next? Okay, next. is Ryan on
the line? Yes, right. Yes. Right. Yeah, | got right. Hi, Ryan. How are you? Good. How you
doing? Okay, | am fine. What's up? All right. So fair, equity split. for

38:53

holding, that doesn't exist. That's what | thought that concept. There's no such thing as a
fair equity split. The only fair equity split is one that two peoples the two people agree
upon. And that could be anywhere from from, from practically nothing to a lot. So when
you say we'll talk about equity, equity split, that’s fine. But don't talk about fair. It's only
fair if both parties agree to it.

39:19

Well so basically, a fairly sophisticated passive investor has told me that my company is
not doing what the marketplace provides an ownership and we're not having any issues
raising money. But | just wanted to get your your feelings for Mark expects when it comes
to ownership, we've never really given up much more than 50% haven't had because our
deal wasn't present. expected a return on money. So I'm wondering if we're going to hit

roadblocks in the future as
jo

jo

which we can live with, and we can get the taxes for

12:41

fascinating, fascinating, if | remember correctly, Donald, at one point, bought some golf

courses, basically as a land banking,

12:48

that at one point, he’s still buying them. | mean, not please not still, since he’s president,
that buying, but he’s got a lot of my second leg when | left | think was like 15. But on the
same concept when we first talked about it. In other words, when Donald | first talked
about, he told me what he was planning on doing. He said, he says, he’s not planning on
building any more buildings and taking the risk that he’s out of that. In other words, that
he did, that's good when you're younger. So now in he loves golf, and he knows the value
of land. And he says he was thinking of like buying golf courses for the purpose of land
banking, based on the future growth. They had a had a golf, organised as part of the
organization to be a part of it, where they could run the golf courses, and effectively not
lose a lot of money on running them and buying a very cheap, | mean, consistently very
cheap for what it was. Right? Right. It was if you figure it on an acreage basis, it's very
cheap. And then at a what he would what he was doing was getting saying to members
that were there, you always bought them, they had members, it was never the course that
didn't have members. The problem is that the membership was too small. And they
couldn't make any improvements. And they couldn't carry the course the cost of
operating the club. So but they were there, and they will pay something. So what what
basically what the were Donald's group was saying that, hey, hey, look, you're over here,
you're paying $10,000. To play now, I'm going to approve the course you can even leave
the $10,000 for a period of time and who's less than maybe maybe less than less than
money and, and when | improve the course, and it's and now beautiful, we are done a lot
of improvements. You can decide do you want to stay or you want to go? And, you know,
adding the prestige of the name, the Trump name on it. The members of a lot of the
members said, Yeah, they would stay. And a lot of new members said hey, now it's a good
place because we know now it's going to have the improvements. We know it’s going to
continue. So we don't have to worry about the fact that there's a huge need for money
which the other members are required to pay. So there's a different concept in, in running
it not not as a long term arrangement unless it works as a long term arrangement, but
during a period of time, until the area can no longer support it. And then you've got this
land which you could find a higher and better use. Because it's in a good area, it’s got that

it's a big chunk of land, you can build on it. Lots of things you can do with it, and you're
JO

JO

JO

JO

29:10

The short term is purely debt the long term is,

29:14

is what do you mean short term was stopped from it? What do you mean short term is
poorly that they're giving you money on a short term? Correct? Yeah. So they're, they're
basically bridge lenders, hard money lenders so that their bridge lenders are but that's
okay. That's understand that's not an investor that's a lender knows they're serving the
function of a lender, they will when time comes they they get paid at a certain point in
time and they're out. They don't have residual interest or residual value. They're serving a
particular purpose. That's a bridge loan and saw in one way or another, you know that it
also is important to work where there is equity, or the an equitable contribution, but the
party if the party never gets back the equitable contribution Unless the property is sold,
that's one thing. But if he gets it back along the way, and effectively and part of it is
lender, then there's nothing to say it can't be both ways. You can say 20% comes back,
this is it goes long term, short term, what have you, but you have to put them in put put
them into proper box, as to what is your talking short term, if you're talking to short term
lenders, they're not investors, the lenders, that you're seeing, you're thinking in terms of a
bank, how that goes is how they're going to get want to get paid, the interest rates are
going to vary because the the nature of the risk is going to vary. But nevertheless, once
they get paid, they're out. They're only looking to get paid. On the other hand, you have
on ones that want to stay in the deal. Now that can be a combination, you can have short
term investors with an opportunity to stay in the deal by saying, Yeah, you have a right a

conversion. So if you can convert it into ownership on

30:55

that, that’s my preference. Yeah, we've we've done that a couple times. But | | feel more of

them are just wanting to do more of the same standard lender bucket, then.

31:04

Fine, that's good. Are you offering security package, lender, which case they got. So they
they sit behind a they sit behind some type of primary financing? The primary financing

can be the the original soonsors who put up the money. That's it, that's primary financing
or a primary loan, which is not sufficient to cover the actual cost of construction or what

have you. And then you got a bridge loan that says, Okay, now this is what you have. And
JO

JO

JO

17:52

Know that | want to, but | want to enjoy an equity appreciation in the company. We go,

right? I've

17:58

just talked. Right. | understand that. And when the only thing I'm saying is, what is the
nature of the restriction you would like? So is this a bio like he can sell the property to the
he can sell the the the interest to an outside party? That's fine. That's, that's a good
restriction. He's got to offer it back to you first, if he does it, that's another good
restriction. So the fact that if he quits and leads out the right to buy him out? Absolutely.
Absolutely. The company may allow you to buy him out. Now the question is, how much
do you pay for it? Now there are lots of ways of figuring it out. In other words, yet one of
the ways is you can have an appraisal based on what the the value of the interest is, and
with an independent appraiser and comes out and say what is and then you pay him
basically his percentage of whatever the total value of the property was. There also is the
stock in giving him when you're going to go to how much it should be based on what he's
what what improvement has occurred as a result of his participation. So if the company is
doing good, because he’s there, then they do want to get a bigger piece and more stock.
If he’s not doing good. Why should he get any stock or Microsoft is entitled to some for
the push as a three is at that point is great. So it's got to be three years. If he leaves me for
this re as he gets nothing. That's good. That works. And to work for him too. So the stock
interest, which is certainly should be a value. So you say hey, if the company grows, you're
going to get money in the stock is going to be worth we're going to be worth money. If it's
ever sold, you got an interest. You know, you're along the way if | ever sell out, you got you
you get to. So it has a lot of advantages. And certainly something should be done. And
you're right that you should you should basically control it. And the hard part, the hard

thing is to figure out how you would value it.

19:51

| just do a different multiple so when I'm thinking to myself, those are good. Yeah, just
quick, just quickly take that profit. And then what I’m thinking to myself if | fire you
because As you did nothing wrong, then you get a higher multiple, if you screw up and |
choose to fire you or if you steal, or if you quit laughs That's different. We have different
enterprise part of revenue a second, that's part of setting it up assuming it, that's what
that is that that is it, whatever it is, it's,
JO

JO

JO

03:41

employees. This is huge. But the impact is huge. But the main thing is right now what
they're losing is more than than than the $5 billion. They're talking about the wall. Oh,
yeah. Big time. | mean, at this point, the the effect on the economy and the effect on
growth, and how we look into in the eyes of the rest of the world is terrible. But you know,
this? What can What can you say if they say, if you don't have cool heads prevailing, or at
least sitting down or doing something, but | think it'll be something's got to happen. And |
think it'll happen in the not too distant future. It has to because there's, there's some,
some of the department the party lines are not going to not going to hold. They can't,
because what's going on in their in their communities. So | thought, Well, a lot of
community, every local community is basically saying, hey, at this point, let's get the ghost
get the government open. And if that in order to get it open, you got to talk sit down and

talk. | think that's what's going to happen.

04:35

But there'll be when | see these things playing out in the public, | often refer to your book
and say, you know, just look and see how is it being played out of Georgia's playbook?
What when you've seen in passes like this in the past? How do you resolve them? Do you

see see building a bridge to both parties saving face?

04:53

Well, you say you can't when you say resolve on that point you can what happens is when
you see something like this, we have to go and give up the deal. Otherwise you can't you
can't do we can't give up the government. So it just did you know, that's not a way out. But
anytime that you run into you that you've done a lot of negotiate a lot, you've gone so far
in a deal. But the other side is totally intransigent improperly, | just want to talk, then you
can't make a deal. Somebody has to sit down and talk. And if people really want to make
a deal, they'll say, Okay, let's talk what how can it hurt you if you talk, you know, that you
have to give in anything? Yeah. | mean, the only thing | think at this point, they would stop
it as if proceeds is I'll talk but Trump you got to resign? Because effectively that's what's
that's what she's saying. It’s a she says wrong. she's she’s, she is wrong only in the Philly
and so far. She refuses to talk and throw things on the table and then having have a veto
thrown back to enjoy anything she wants on the table. Except she's actually she's not
going to fund any part of his promise. Forget Mexico paying for it or anything. He's
promised to secure the border, and they want to secure the border. They want that. They

recognize it's not that he’s asking for something impossible. Not that is maybe the price
JO

JO

JO

JO

you what, you you sell me use, you sell me the land or you give me this land for X dollars.
And | will give you this rate of return you will and the land and I'll give you give me a long
term lease. But meanwhile, you come out with some money. So you know that you're not
really come You came out with some money at this. But in addition that you've got got a
fixed rate of return on a long term ground lease. So you still you've sold the property, but
you still own the property. And you're part of the we are part of the ongoing deal, but |
couldn't afford to buy it from you at the price you want to totally and you wouldn't sell it
at that because you want to you still still want to get part of the future. So you bifurcated
and you come up with with The variations it works and it's a great, it’s great. I've done it

many times

50:04

near experience to the lenders have any heartache over that structure?

50:08

No. What, what, what what heartache. | don't know. As far as a heartache is concerned,
the lenders are looking at you now, instead of having the value of the land, you have the
value of the Groundlings. Okay. All right. So the loaning now on the strength of the ground
lease, and generally the the rent the return, which the owner of the property wants on the
ground lease is not as not not nearly involved, not nearly as much as what it would be in

the event that he was looking for an outright sale of his property. Have you

50:37

seen a situation where the where the where an investor comes in and purchases the

property on behalf of the sponsor?

50:44

Yeah, okay. Yeah, that's, that's harder. Yeah. But still, it's normal usually, is when I've found
it works is that you've, you've you've spoken to this is an owner who's got the property.
And he knows it has future value, and future profit and future development possibilities.
And he wants to be part of that. But he doesn’t want to lose everything. He doesn't want
to be going totally and throw in the land at that point and and see what he gets part of
the deal based on but he doesn't see the value, the value of the land that this widget, hey,

so | split it up, you give me I'll sell you. I'll put the land into the deal. But | get a certain rate
_)O

_)O

JO

of return guaranteed, which has nothing to do with this deal. So if the deal goes sour, | still
got my rate of return on the land. And I've also your partner in the deal, which is different.
So he spent it off. However, there’s nothing to say you can't do without with an outright
third party. Absolutely nothing. And I've done it. Okay. Great feedback. Appreciate it. I've
done yeah, that's it is and it does work as far as lenders are concerned. But they are
concerned about is what they the equity, which they have is the value of the leasehold, at
least all is long enough at a reasonable rate of return. All they're looking for is they go
you've got to run out that | can get my money out within a period of years. 15 years, 13
years, 12 years, whatever they have in mind. So they may make a gay, the equivalent of a
20 year loan, but they want to get paid out in 15 years. But they're leasehold loans made

caught made constantly very often. Okay, okay.

52:22

Well in a few minutes. Before we wrap up, let me go over to Shana Shana, you're on the

line, make sure we get her question in here as well.

52:30

Okay. Can you hear me? Yes. Great. Hi. Hi, George, thanks so much for being on the line
with us. My husband? My pleasure. Yeah. My husband and | are working on a syndication
in canmore, Alberta, we're working with Victor on it. Actually. It's just outside Banff
National Park. Kenmore is a very small market. And there's an extremely slow trickle of
reasonable, reasonably priced properties that meet our purchasing criteria. We're actively
raising capital and actively pursuing the good properties that come up. Currently, we're
writing offers on properties ahead of fully raising the capital for the project. And I'm
hoping to get your thoughts on the acquisition strategy and funding strategy so that we
don't get too far ahead of the money or miss out on the good buying opportunities. And
then how will How should our strategy change? if at some point we find ourselves sitting

on a pool of money?

5a:20

Well, you're sitting at a pool of money is easy, you can always find a place to place that
the party is not sitting on a pool of money and still making a deal. That's, that’s the more
difficult question as somebody, but however, this is sitting on a brand new property, it
depends on At what point you're looking for funds. Certainly, you can buy, enter into a
contract a purchase of sale, and you put up a deposit. Well, now you control it. Because

you don't have to physically owned the property at the time, as long as you have the right
JO

JO

you come first. So you can, there’s so many variations, which may can make good sense
for the sponsor with you and also for the potential investor. But simple, the greater the
greater the risk, the greater the return. and simple, less there is the Leicester return. And it
can be broken up into all different ways. And this has to do with what happens if they
refinanced who gets the biggest piece of it. Right. So same same way, if that was the one
that one that has the greatest risk, that point gets the greatest reward, the others can get
less, but to put something. So if you take it the other way around, say, Hey, | get paid
before you get paid, the investors don't like that. But if you say you get paid before | get
paid the investors like that, and it’s not, it's something that you do on an individual basis
or an individual group of properties. But don't listen to the what's on the marketplace.
Because that that can always vary. And not only that, there will always be properties that
are out there or investments that are out there that have a good secure rate of return. And
but but it's but it's low, because there's less risk. There are also others that are total fliers,
with a higher rate of return in a situation where you could lose you lose all your money,
but but cripple it in a short period of time. And you have to separate them out. Make

sense? Great. Pretty good. Okay, what's

47:42

Okay, next? This one is one from both Dave Zook and myself, Dave, do you want me to set
this one up? Dave? Are you there? Yeah, go ahead. Okay, so George, this is, this is a
situation where there's a discretionary fund attached to a hedge fund. And they have a
slightly different model, what they propose is, rather than putting in mezzanine money, or
even preferred equity, they bifurcate the asset. And by that, | mean, they will purchase the
land at a premium. So let's say the land is worth Yeah. Good. That's out here. Okay. So it's
worth, let's say, 3 million, they might buy it for eight, and then write a 99 year ground
lease. And the rate of return that they expect on the ground lease is basically their
compensation for putting in that equity. Because that equity becomes a hands in the

hands of the sponsors. What do you think of that structure? Have you seen it before?

48:42

And as far as structure is concerned, many destructure, or a variation of that structure I've
used many times, and it does work. And I'm not saying that you shouldn't use it. But
certainly, when it does work, or | found that it became useful is when you have an owner
of the property that does not want to be an investor. In other words, they don't want to,
they don't want to sell it outright. However it happens because they say, well, you're going
to make a pot full of money developing it, | want to be part of that. How do we how do

you do it? And then you come up with with exactly what you have a variation, okay? I'll tell
