JO

JO

the contractors, the various plots of various transactions that go into the equity the
transaction. So you can control the release legal fees, you can control the operation, you
can control everything. And periodically check it out to see this fits within whatever

budget you came up with.

40:46

What's pure gold? | love it. Okay, all right. Next, we've got Brad Brad, you're on the line.

Okay, what will government read? Read? You can press star six to unmute.

40:58

George, for you there. Yeah, sure. Hey, how are you? Sir? Thanks for taking the time. My
question is revolves around getting a financial summary from from a seller and you have
a, you know, | have a sense that it’s not, you know, all there. It's fiction, if you will, no
concrete proof, you know, what do | do? How do | get the real numbers, you don't get the
real numbers, you don't deal with that person? Simple as that. You have to deal with them
don't deal with them, you're probably a gut reaction is probably right. For what
interesting? Absolutely. Feeling for one reason or another. Okay, thank you. If it seems to
be too good to be true, it probably is. Alright, so you got you're gonna have a feeling
about is dealing with this dealing with somebody or dealing with the numbers. And | had
give you a classic example, that came on, there was a building that was available on the
on downtown Manhattan in Wall Street. And it was available for sale, | analyzed it on
behalf of my client, and came up with a number This was the price, | don’t remember how
much it was. But assume now we'll take a number was $10 million. And then | said don't,
don't take it. And then looking at the about a year went by and came on the market with
a brochure where the price was 20 million. And I'm looking at | said, | can't be that far off.
In those | said your stop was worth 10, this guy comes up with 20. And | looked at the the
the offering plan the brochure. And it looked at the income there was it the total income
from the building, there was an asterisk. And | looked at this the and where did where does
that asterisk explained. And then the very last page at the very, very bottom, it said, This
income is based on a 95% occupancy rate, no building in Wall Street has ever maintained
a 95% occupancy rate. Okay, if somebody didn't go to the asterisk, and figure it out, they
looking at the old look at the income, it’s a great return, and a great return and it was
worth the price the offering price that was there. But examination, you looked at it, you
could figure out that this is what was exactly wrong. And this is important in any in any
transaction you have, where you have a brochure or offering plan or something along
those lines, make sure that the that what's there can be verified. When | say verify that if

you're buying a piece of property, don't take a look at that there's a very nice picture of
JO

JO

JO

only who's ever going to be the defensive is going to be happy. I'm not that bad. | don't do
that. And they say | shouldn't be that this, you now have a dispute between two parties,
both of which think they are right. And that's not where you want to be in a partnership.
And lawsuits are, are expensive. And generally speaking, | never, ever recommend
litigation. That's not the best solution. There are times it has to be done. | would
recommend litigation when is the way of getting attention of somebody that doesn't pay,
you know, is not, you can't get their attention. So as a tactic as a tack technique for
getting the attention of the other partner litigation or anticipated litigation is a good as
could be a good weapon. However carrying it to the final collusion conclusion is not
where | would ever want to go. Got it.

19:15

Got it. Okay. | think I think that deals with that question pretty completely. Good. Okay.
Next question is from Robin. Robin. You're on the line. You are quiet. Robin, are you
kidding me? Yes. Okay, perfect.

19:35

So | guess if it's not happy George's, I'm looking to establish myself as an authority as a
real estate investor. Social proof is important these days to attract business and
investment. In your case, you've published like two books you've taught in the law school
at NYU, you speak on various stages around the world and you've become widely known
as a result of the apprentice. Right. So So what would you advise someone just starting

out to do to become positioned in the in the marketplace of similarity,

20:02

what the marketplace is, you need some spokesman and some somebody that can can
vest the contest, the good testimonial, from somebody that's in the business or somebody
who's got a lot of money, somebody stands up and say, Here's why | would invest with
them. Because I've had results, the good results. And they will be, basically speak for you.
And that portion has to be recognized. So it may be having your own website, and we
have somebody there that was will basically vouch for you and say, Yeah, | would, here's
why | would deal with him, | dealt with Robin. And as a result of this, | made X number of
deals, and so on, like, I'm very happy, the more people you can have speaking on your
behalf, the better it is, the better that the greater their recognition in the outside world,
then that's the best thing that's that’s pretty good. People believe when somebody of

authority, or somebody would name would recognition is the first | would want with. And if
JO

JO

JO

JO

I'm satisfied that you got to watch it. And we'll have a 10% or 15% contingency, if it

happens.

38:34

What are your thoughts on a lump sum versus a guaranteed maximum price contract?

And | know you're gonna have contingency in both cases, yeah, questions like

38:42

maximum, | don't like maximum price contracts with somebody guarantee, somehow
they'll meet the maximum price, but they're going to chisel you along the way. If the
courts run out of that run out of bounds, somebody should have to make a reasonable

profit on any transaction.

36°55

Right? That's the lenders like a GMP contract.

38:58

They love it. They love it. And they love a bonded contract even more. So of course, that's
what you like. But if if some understand if somebody signs, a guaranteed contract, they've
already built in a reserve contingency in that you don't know what that is, what the
percentage is what it is, but there’s always there because they don't want to get hit with a
contracts gonna cost the money. So therefore, they built in something, say, Okay, | can do
it. But maybe they charge you 20% more because they built in a contingency. In other
words, they say, for the guaranteed for, for the guarantee that I'm going to come in within
the price. I'm getting 20% more. And what happens along the way, when they're going to
win. If the they're going to get hurt by the by the the maximum price, what do you think
they're going to do? They're going to do some way to figure out how not to get hurt.
They're going to cut something off to something it's only natural. They don't want to lose
money. So it’s like when you're paying for insurance that you don't use Is that the way to
go? decision now banks like they love it to have a bond or something else. And also
municipalities also love it. Because they legally guarantee it’s gonna come in at this price.
That's true. But you may pay for it, will you pay more for that the fixed price guarantee?
Generally | object | found objectionable to do it and better if you don't, if you still have

control, somebody's got to have control to keep it in line with the sobs with this with all
JO

one basket. So well, | would | agree with that liquid. Having all your eggs in one basket is a
problem. But at this so However, what you can do and work very well is if you have more
than one you can bargain one against the other. In other words, if someone comes in at
this point, and it’s a question now Yeah, we're both completed on a prude at time. Same
time, same thing, and they're both you think they're both contractors now the question is
good. Which one? Why Why you aren't cheaper? This one? I'll do it for that. Why won't
you do it for that? | will give you more work if you perform. So that's nothing wrong with it.
That's that’s a good way to do business. Sure. | mean, | used to have a michy. Do | be
making negotiations for bank loans? And you may have three different banks that are
saying, Hey, we like that loan, we'll do this, we'll do that. And I'll say, okay, and | do one
against the other. You gave me 4%, you gave me three and three quarters, you went 10
years, 20 years, 10 years, and you have a Chinese auction? You go backwards at that
point, you say the best one and worked out. Okay. With that? Yeah, | haven't compared |
need to do that. So I'll compare the the more expensive than the cheaper one. But just in
the past, when | tried to negotiate the first companies are very stubborn on the pricing.
They're very firm. And | think it might be that they have more, just there's more overhead.
And there's there's a couple of middlemen and a construction manager to company

owner and all that. All of that there’s a problem you're going to have with whoever you're
going to contract with do business with. And the main thing is it this is to keep this
situation where you have some diversity, so that somebody doesn't have such a
stranglehold on you that you can't get you can't do business without them. Right. So
that's, that's the keys is you have to have to have some control, say, hey, you're not for
me, or I'm not from you. So I'm going to get somebody else that's going to do what you do
at a better price, or sooner or what have you. Nothing wrong with bargaining one against
the other. As a matter of fact, a good idea to have more than one party doing it. For
example, at this point, | have financial manager, | think any major person who any person
with any degree of wealth, should have a financial planner, a financial manager, | have
two, | have two bankers, two separate banks. And | keep an eye on both to see which one
is doing better, or which one they're coming up. So one gives me this return one to do that
one says to invest in this property. Another one says don't. So | now have a | can look at
each one and make a decision instead of letting one make the decision for me. Very sorry,
| think we're trying to do this good. Yeah, like, it’s almost like having checks and balances

with the competition's very sorry, right. Exactly. Right. Excellent. Thank you very much,

3229

George Woody, what are your thoughts of someone who comes in with a lowball bid? And
ultimately, | mean, we've all heard stories in the past where the lowball bid where the
lowball bid ended up being more expensive in the long run, because it was under bid.

Sometimes, sometimes the more expensive, reliable.
JO

JO

32:45

Question is the reputation reputation is global is not another | would say in all the
negotiations, which basically there was involved with, especially in the Trump
Organization, we very rarely took the low bidder. Very rarely. Now, you may use the low
bidder, as the stalking horse for the best bidder you ultimately except except, so now you
have somebody you know, somebody comes in with a little bit, and you have four other
bids. You may say to the one that you're ready to take or to the other three, Hey, | got
somebody that says he'll do it for 300,000 less, what about you, and use that as a
bargaining chip until you finally get the one you want? but very rarely did we ever take the
lowest bidder? So what was the what was the criteria? If it wasn't financial? Well, it was just
like, it's the criteria. What's the track record? At that point, Kenny, if necessary? Can he be
bonded? What jobs is he done in the past? what's what's what job is he got got handling
now does he have the time to handle who is the supervisor personnel reputation in the
industry. But most of the time, at that point, you have, since we're dealing in pretty large
transactions, you're limited to who can basically handle a large transit. So if you have
somebody who is a DC, building a building, that's $80 million, you want to have somebody
who's capable of handling an $80 million transaction. And right away, there's that limit,
how many people can how many companies can really handle it, or have handled it on a
competitive basis. So it but you can go lowered down on any phase of a transaction and
decide what's my pool of labor or a pool of people that can work and do the job that I'm
looking to have done. And then pick the one that you think is most appropriate, and
usually it’s not the one that gives you the lowest bid. And if you happen to get somebody
that's got a higher bid, and when you're ready to accept a lower bid, that you say good
I'm going to did, | have somebody just coming in lower and the one with the highest, okay,
I'll do it for that price, too. That's a killer, because somehow they will be that far off in the
price. They're going to figure out how to make it back. What is that what | have to give
you is he came in at this with a with a if you have specs, right, and you have a spec at this
point and you're ready, you got a contractor that you're ready to do business with is over
here like this, | have a contract that is going to do this job for $500,000. And somebody
other than that came in with a bit of a million. And you say, Yeah, you're much too high,
I'm not going to use you, | got somebody for 500,000, the guy with a million says I'll do it
for 500,000. Somehow, at this point, you're going to get screwed, because he shouldn't
have been that far off the way the way that where they would doubled it. On the other
hand, if it's if it's 10% 15%, that's within the reach, that's reasonable. But 50%, or 100% is

outrageous.

30:91

Having having solid specifications really is key to managing that and making sure that
JO

JO

jo

JO

one because you can't fire your your wife. If it's not performing whatever the task is in the
organization, so that you can get some type of management personnel, someone who's
good in managing businesses, that's had some experience or has the as the type of the
expertise and make it worthwhile for them to come in basically and run a report back to
to you what's going on. So it's a question of getting the appropriate bookkeeping, the
accountants all of the information that you need, but have somebody there that you can

trust is the day to day matter. Managing operator,

09:23

what are your thoughts on hiring full time versus part time?

09:26

Hire full time? My thoughts are higher is definitely hiring full time if you're not going to be
there, part time who is going to run the situation? Who runs it when and when this person
is not available? Right, somebody's got to be there on a full time basis. Yeah, and for what
you're what you're telling me He's He's, uh, he’s, he’s in Europe and handling properties in
the United States. That's a problem by itself. You need somebody would like to say what
boots on the ground that is available when something comes up. somebody that's
trustworthy that you can you can trust. If you have to make a give a piece of the action,
some type of reward based on performance, and more important than anything else,
periodic reports and information so that something doesn't get way out of control before

you learn about it.

10:16

Oh, he absolutely does have boots on the ground partners and personnel in the local

geographies for sure. So that's

10:25

about who's handling the overall. Right. Well, that's the issue. That's exactly okay. Yeah.
Okay, but you need somebody there who came over with us make a difference? How
many different units? Who are the parts? Question who to basically checks on Oh, who is
responsible for the operation of all of them. So you now have to each one, somebody has
to put it together could be a CFO or somebody the equivalent of a chief financial officer,

or chief operating officer that runs, it’s in charge of operating various divisions, and each
JO

JO

JO

13:22

Well, okay, that’s it. Is this a personal question? Obviously, from would seem to me and I'm
an obviously, that you're already past the point of no return. If you don't have any faith in
your partner and its partner fulfilling their obligations, and not providing financial reports
arising. So first time that that happens, you got a problem? And you basically should go
about how do | solve that problem answering that is, if you have a good man, a good
agreement, a good partnership agreement, there may be a way of getting rid of the
partner that not performing based on the performance or what have you. So some type of
a typical buyout. So | can buy your share, or you buy my share. But in the end, this is how
we pay for it. But you have to have provided for a good divorce clause in your partnership
agreement. If you don't provide for that, then, you know, it's everything else is doesn't
work. lawsuits are expensive. And they that don’t usually solve the problem. But obviously
from the situation you're reporting, it's already beyond that. This should have happened.
The laws of the zoo or not the zoo should have happened long ago, when the when the
problem first arose. Now while you watch it, you watch it get worse and worse and worse.
You say we'll say shouldn't When should | do it the right time is long past. The right time is
the first time that you did that you have a dereliction of duty or whatever responsibility is,
that's the time and the basic solution is so that you have a good partnership agreement
where technically you can do it or or You have a third party make the decision. If the two
parties can agree on ona third party and say good, whatever you say is the referee will
abide by that works too. But it’s very hard to get them both two parties to agree on the
third that they all need that they both both trust and respect. But I've done that. And I've
seen it and I've had it met in any couple instances, | have where the two parties say, if we
don't agree, let Georgia decide. And | have no financial interest in it. But I'm there as an
arbitrator. mediator call it what you like. So that does work. But it’s hard to find somebody

they both have an interest.

15:39

Yeah, absolutely. One of the what are your thoughts on using not the threat of a lawsuit,

but the actual filing of a lawsuit, file it in order to gain negotiate whatever

15:50

it is, at this point, do whatever you have to do in order to get the result that you need?
Sometimes the lawsuit basically is you need you somehow you have to get the attention
of the party who's doing who's not doing what they're supposed to be doing in a lawsuit

could be the answer. And basically, what | would say at that point, you're going to start a
JO

JO

JO

JO

with four partners. So the four of us would act, and then we'll for exactly that was the end
of it. The Junior part, anyone who wasn't part of the four, they just have to go along with
what the majority of the four said. And we all didn't necessarily agree, but we could we

could reach a consensus.

06:42

So you would speak with one voice at the end?

06:44

Correct. Exactly. Right. And that's what it was in that. Take it or leave it. That's it. That's it.
That's it. There’s no discussion beyond that point. So when the time came to split our
profits, we would say how profits are going to be split up and all of the junior partners had
no decision that no, they may not like it, but they had no choice. Oh, say this is what it is, if
you don't like to leave. That makes sense. Yeah, you can't. It’s what | call the benevolent

dictatorship, if that's a good word. But that's how good organization is right. Perfect.

07:21

Okay, good start to the discussion. Well, we've got a, we've got a series of questions
tonight. And it was not designed this way by any means. But it just happened by accident.
A lot of questions around management and personnel. So this next question comes from
Billy in Barcelona, who was not able to be on the call. Now he's living in Europe and
investing in the US where he's built a portfolio, several 100 units. And he's running into
difficulty where he had previously had his wife in a role where she was running daily
operations, doing a lot of the bookkeeping and so on. And he's not able to do that any
longer. So he needs to find a way to fix his operational shortfall. When you advise him in
terms of the kinds of skills to hire beyond just you know, hiring a bookkeeper or financial
controller? Where would you advise him to hire? Would it be start with a low level
assistant, or at the top of the organization, a high initiative person who can step in and

assume a lot of responsibility, including some of his responsibility?

08:27

Okay, well, first of all, a low level of systems is not a solution to the problem. Though, you
got a serious problem, the serious part of the serious problem was, who was he, the one

who was involved with his wife, husband and wife situation is, it starts out that's a difficult
JO

_)O

venture capitalists want particular transactions, what they're willing to pay. And they are
the calling card. Because the venture capitalists do a little bump, see, I've had 10 deals
with them, they turn are good. He always because he knows what | look for, and therefore
will give me something that's of value. But to do it yourself. It's hard to get past the
gatekeepers, because they don't have a faith in you. | think that’s very good advice. That
to be realistic, be realistic. The broker at this assume now you deal with a broker, and the
broker at that point gets a fee, which he certainly entitled to he or she is entitled to for
putting the transaction together. If you don’t think that part of that fee might go to the
gatekeeper. You're fascinating. Yep. But that's it. That's the only walk at that point.
Somebody gets paid that.

2:32

Yeah, that Thank you, George for another great call as always, great. Our next call is what
August 28, if | remember correctly, also a Wednesday night. So we'll talk to you again next
month.

52:47

Perfect. Looking forward to it. Terrific. Have a good night, everyone. Okay. Thank you,
George. All right. Cheers. Bye for now. There's another monthly edition of the George Ross
mastermind if you've got a question for George, just send an email to ask George at Real
Estate guys radio comm make sure you get your questions in at least two days before the
next mastermind successful syndicating
JO

JO

Well, it's a, it's a good question. But the question goes back who's in charge, somebody's
got to be in charge. And so it’s got to be making the decisions. And that person has to be
strong enough to make the appropriate decision to figure out what's going wrong, and
what are the areas which require revision, and the personnel to do their and basically has
to make some what would be difficult decisions, but that have to be made in order to
permit the company to grow. And they have to have be able to get all of the information
and basically to assess the performance of all the individuals in the organization with
some kind of reports or receipts or, or get a hold of the the operation. So it's, it's having
someone in charge and can delegate in the various areas to what they are, where they
don't have the expertise that they need themselves to solve the problem. Well, the Trump

Organization, it's a management is a management problem.

02:24

Yes, it is. Yes, it is. And | mean, the Trump Organization was certainly run more than more

as a dictatorship than than any other management style. What do you

02:33

do not | wouldn't say as a dictatorship, the answer was, yes, when it came to a major
decision, that would be be made only by one person, yes. But that one person at this point
would would basically analyze the various departments and how they're operating, and
who get the information. So if you will know how much money his particular department is
making, what their payroll is, what their expenses are, we get all that information
periodically. By this, the CFO does the chief financial officer, and the various operating
departments would the would report back to them. And he also got the question, he
accounts in the bank accounts, and then just funnels up so there's only one as a major
decision to be made, it will be made by the by the head of the organization. Otherwise, it'll
be the head of a particular department. So they have a department does an accounting
and somebody is not doing the job in the accounting, then the CFO would solve it. If it has
to do with maintenance and operation who's ever in charge of that that division would
basically make the decisions and make recommendations as to what should be done to
correct it, which ultimately would pass to whoever is in the next line of command. So it's
setting up good chains of command, and everybody reef reports up the line, not only to
the person at the top, if the person that's top is the only one making decision, you got a
terrible organization. Now, of course, everybody, everybody will pass the buck up to the

top because they don't want to make a decision. Right, right.
JO

JO

jo

JO

that person is you, we have to be after get somebody that's going to be a personnel

matter manager on your behalf from a relationship with the outside world.

21S

And in your case, specifically, when you started off, like Was there any specific if then

some groups that you were part of that helped you kind of like?

2125

Oh, yeah, well, yeah, but let's go The answer is that yes, yes, yes, yes. When | understand
that, effectively, at this point, | started a, or was involved with a senior partner in a law
firm, which specialized in real estate. And we had major clients that were large
entrepreneurs in real. So they would be the ones that would be my salesmen. So
somebody that would that had a lot of money involved in real estate, who would you use
as your lawyer or advisor? Well, | would use your drawers. That's the answer. So you build
your reputation, because now you have a good client base. And you become known in the
industry. So the firm that | had, which a die time | had 116 lawyers doing nothing but real
estate. Now, that's huge. Because that means most firms at a minor interested in real
estate Who would ever have a firm with 116 lawyers doing nothing with real estate. And
that was at a time when 116 was a major law firm. Now they they're in the hundreds, but
was a specialty. So as long as you were known by the specialty, that’s how it works. So you
have to figure out how to be known by a specialty, whatever it may be. Okay, thank you.

You're welcome.

22:43

That's a great answer. Okay, the next question. Let's go to SAP in Southern California

separate either press star six to unmute

22:54

it, Victor. Hey, George. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. So this question is, in regards to
something that a mentor told me who had studied the Trump Organization. He said that
the Trump Organization tends to lean more towards hiring third party contractors,
vendors and service providers instead of actually hiring employees in house. And when he
told me that it wasn't saying that there was no employees in house, but who's saying that

they generally tend to want to work with third party companies.
JO

23:28

And | said, this was done because it's, you know, more effective, easier managed a third
party companies than employees. So my first question is, is that statement true? And |
have a follow up question after the Azure is no statements not true. What say is not true,
because it was what there were times when it makes sense to use third party contractors
in times wanting to provide service providers and times you have employees. So you have
to break down the task and fit the right person or the right group to the task. So usually,
as a broad, broad answer is no, it doesn't work that way. In other words, instead of
someone who's got the knowledge on an individual basis, do it faster and better. So you
hire an independent contractor there rather than that point where you need employees
that it had to do me to do tasks which are, which will continue over, over the better off
having control over that individual. So now you would have the same you're talking about
maintenance of buildings, you have one person that would be in charge of all the
maintenance of the buildings, hiring delivery needs, in the way of independent contractors
or people who sweep the floors, individual buildings that making making those decisions.
So it depends on what you want them to do, what the task is, and what's the most cost
effective way of doing it. What are the problems you have when you mail out in price it's
hard to fire employees D to file contractors to fire him if you don’t do the work, you don't
do it. Also, if you don't do the work with the contractor, it doesn't work out at that point,
you say, Hey, I’m not paying you. That's very effective. Try that with employees, it doesn't
work out what the task is on an individual basis, and saying, What's the best way to
handle that task? Should | get outside party outside third party and engage them as
independent contractor or on that time, should | would it be better to have an employee
basically to do whatever that whatever that task is, and break it down and campaign it
with a broad brush. And anyone who says they can't, they just don’t realize there are
decisions to be made on minor level decisions, major levels, their decisions, which are very,
which are very costly. And there are other ones which are relatively inexpensive. And some
that are individual situations that are not going to reoccur, this others are going to recur
onaconstant basis. So it really fixing the right party to handle the job, they handle the job
that comes up and do it on an individual basis, rather than on an overall basis. Excellent.
And you actually answered my second question. The other one is you had another go for,
hey, | wouldn't when you have now, what somebody says, in an individual organization,
because they're part of the organization, | would say, | would certainly take it with a whole
shaker of salt, not a grain of salt, because they're looking at it from their own perspective,
which could be totally distorted. And therefore, when they relay it as being gospel, it's not
gospel in a given situation. It could be different could be better could be otherwise. But it's

it's somebody's view of what's going on
Ollee

PC-July-2019-Mastermind-Call-with-
George-Ross

ge Jhu,9/94:00PM @ 53:11

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, decision, organization, run, building, partners, hiring, problem, transaction, point, george,

contractors, operating, good, trump, price, situation, lawsuit, contract, area

JO

JO

JO

00:00

Hey syndication memory club. It's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross
mastermind. Hey, George. Good evening. All right. Hi. Oh, Victor, how are you? I'm very
good. Very good. Good. We've got a great turnout tonight. And we've got lots of great
questions. So welcome, everyone. That's all. | got great answers.

00:21

We'll jump right in. So welcome, everyone. Welcome to our monthly mastermind call with
Mr. George Ross. George, of course is well known for his role in the Trump Organization is
Donald's right hand man for better part of 37 years, and was at the law school that NYU
taught negotiation at the law school, the author of two best selling books on real estate in
negotiation. And welcome, welcome. Again. Good, good to be here again. So let's start.
What do we got? We have? The first question is a kind of a general question. And it really
relates to what to do when your organization is stuck. And the management spending
way too much time managing detail, the growth has stalled, and things are not working as
they should be. What is it that you look for as a solution? Are you looking to hire
additional talent, looking fire people that are underperforming, bringing in additional
capital? What's your go to default? What do you look to first for solving that kind of
malaise type problem?

01:24
JO

JO

jo

they don't drive absolutely

35:58

no whoever's reviewing the specifications, who's the who's the supervising architect, who's
who's supervising it that knows this, and is familiar in the industry, and knows the
companies that they are available for you to put to be used, that has to have a
reputation, you used them in the past, they're honorable, they pay their subcontractors,
and I've had good results. So you want somebody who's had good results, not somebody
say this is the first one I've ever done or had bad results. So you have to check them out.
And say, are these is this somebody, this group of the persons or the firm that | want to do
business with, because they've got a good reputation, and | can trust them. And I'm not
going to have a problem. So getting the right personnel to do the right job is extremely
critical. And if you use them in the past, that's a big plus. If you use this in the past that it

didn't work out, well, that's a big minus.

36:51

So question, then for set for you to go back and look at would be to look at the specs, the
quality of the specs that you have, for example, | was just reviewing a set of specs from
one of our architects, that was literally 440 pages. And | was surprised the document was
that that thorough in that complete, but when | saw that, it was like, wow, this is exactly
what we need. Because if we don't have this, then it's way open to interpretation. One

subcontractor is going to interpret it completely differently from the next.

a723

Yeah, absolutely. That's the question is, how good are the specs. So as the specs are
detailed, and you operate from that, fine, but if you're talking about preliminary specs,
and everything is out there, then by the time it gets from the preliminary to the final, it
could be a tremendous deviation. So you have to get the make the final decision based on
the what something is definitive, so that you could it can be defended, or or looked at,
and we done rather than just while build it build a nice building and 10 day, you know,
whatever it is. But that's that's specificity is very important for whoever is your UGC or
your contractor who's ever supervising the job, to get it to a point where they're willing to
where they can be satisfied that the specs are detailed enough that you're not gonna
have, and there's always going to be a contingency, as | say, right about the off maybe
10% 15%. That's, but that’s normal. So you don't have to say, guarantee the job for that

price. They don't like guarantees of the job, somehow it doesn't work out. We'll say, Alright,
JO

JO

JO

of the divisions runs on a separate basis. So in this instance, what you're telling these guys
separate business units or buildings, they would be separately, we're all run by who's ever
in charge. But there's an overall supervisor, which handles the entire operation from a

supervisory capacity.

11:15

Yeah, absolutely. | mean, you know, one of the things that's been an issue for him is
separating the day to day versus managing growth. So, you know, he's trying to source
deals.

TW25

Welcome to the club, Billy. Exactly. Right. Welcome to the club. This is this is typical at
this, but you got to get so you get there has to be different levels of decision in operating
and you got to make sure that on the lower level, it operates without the senior official
being directly directly involved. If you're directly involved in doing then you don't have an
organization, you got a one man, or one person situation, which is totally intolerable. In
the long run. That's exactly right. It doesn't scale and he can never go on vacation.
Correct. All right. The key basically, for any operation, or somebody in charge of a
business or tried an operation, is to ask themselves one question, if | were not here, would
my business survive? If the answer is no, you got some got life changing to do? If the
answer is? No, then you figure out what you're going to do. Because that's where you are,
you got to you don't have a business, you got a one person data, a one person operation,
which can survive. So that's what you have to look at, say, if | were not here, would my

business work? The answer is no. make changes. | love that.

12:42

| love that. Okay, that's great. The let's go to the next question. The next one is from Alina,
who also could not be on the call. She's having a problem where she'd like to know when
is the right time to sue somebody in particular, in this case, if they're a partner, and the
partners not fulfilling their fiduciary responsibility, they're not providing financial reports
to investors. And yet, she doesn't necessarily have all of the clear facts, because he’s
withholding information. And because the situation’s vague, she's trying to figure out

when is the right time?
JO

JO

JO

26:47

the farthest thing from the truth, so | just, you know, | wouldn't, | would listen to it, | would
hear it, but | would make a separate evaluation, | certainly wouldn't rely on it. So | give you
an example of spice cards you have with the Trump Organization. They, in many, many
situations like Trump, they said Trump never paid his bills, he always paid his bills. But if he
had something if somebody didn't do the job, and he wanted to say, good, you didn't do
the job, therefore, | want a discount. They say, Well, no, he doesn't pay the contractors.
Well, he doesn't because he had a reason. But one of the things that we used to do, which
found very effective was to give a bonus for someone say fine, how long is it going to take
you to fix this, this repair, I'd say it's going to take me three months, | said good. If you do
it shorter, three months, at that point, we'll give you more money. And that worked very
well. Because what happens when it gets down to the end, they'll work your tail off to get
the more money. Right. So which shows you how to do some of this work very well, when
you had buildings which are under compression. So sometimes you will all do the steel
work at this point in in three to three months, say fine, write it down three months you do.
However, if you do it shorter than three months, at that point, I'll give you a bonus
because the sooner the steel is done the neck get to the next. The next phase, the end
result is the building in the car, instead of being built on the basis of two and a half or
three years. Maybe with by giving the the incentive, it could be a much shorter period of
time. And when the incentive start to run out, you will find whoever these contractors are
whether fully working for them will work the tail off to get the bonus. So instead of fighting
for being late, you're saying that they'll work harder because they get extra fair early.

That's great. Very valuable to thank you.

28:46

So if you have another question related to to contractors as well, why don't you ask that

one as well? | know we didn't get it in time to transmit?

28:55

Sure. Yeah. So it follows the same. The same suggestion that George just mentioned
regards to the contract. So recently found a new construction company that has good
workmanship, and prices. And they're about half the cost of my current contractor who
I've been working with for a couple of years. So they're good quality, and they're way
cheaper. But the caveat is this new, cheaper company, I've only worked with them on one
project. And | have a couple couple of urgent projects coming down the pike. And | want

to have the new company work on it. But I'm kind of worried about having all my eggs in
JO

JO

JO

JO

lawsuit, make the papers reek of probably of things that you're objecting to, don't try to be
nice about it, just put it on it. So that it looks bad in what is in writing, even though you
may not want to enforce all of the provisions that you have there. But once you decide
you're going to litigate go full bore.

16:31

And and she should be hiring a litigator or a securities attorney?

16:35

No, not a security attorney. | don't know what to fight. | don't know what the controls are.
Because | don't know at this point, when you say they're not doing what where were they
obligated to do it? What document or agreement binds them to this rule to the
partnership relationship? It's just we trust each other a formal agreement? It’s a it’s a
company operating agreement. All right. It's company operating agreement. Good. What
What does that provide in the event that somebody doesn't operate properly? What's the

remedy provided in there?

17:06

| don't from from my discussion with her. It's not that strong in terms of providing those

those special cases it doesn't doesn't deal with the medical they my opinion,

17:18

well, then you got the problem became honors, that the whoever drafted the agreement
important together was not a contemplating that this situation might arise. And that’s
what you should be. At the time you set up these partnerships, the operation, there's
nothing on the line, that’s the time you, you know, don't know who's going to be hurt, or
who's going to object. So you can get a clause or a group of clauses, which solves the
problem, not know what side they're on. And that's what you have to do in the agreement
saying, hey, if we don't agree, how do we get out? How do you have a divorce proceeding?
That's the key to any partnership, valid and agreement, what we do in the event that
there's a disagreement and a divorce, I'll buy you out, you buy me out, we'll go to an
arbitrator or do something. But something is finite that could be triggered when one of
the partners is unhappy. Is there a scenario where you could see a lawsuit backfiring on

her? Absolutely. Lawsuits could backfire? And probably would, because now whoever is
JO

JO

JO

JO

04:04

What if at the top, you don't have a single individual, but in fact, you've got a committee

or a partnership?

04:09

That's fine. Somewhere in the committee in the partnership is fine, but somebody has got
to have somebody got to be the final voice. So somehow is the the Someone has to be
able to make the decision or break the decision? Of course, it could be a committee, right?
So you could have a committee and you figure out who's good. How does the committee
make decisions is unanimous or is the majority, depending upon the organization. So |
mean, | can only think now and in my partnership, we're had like four managing partners
on a law firm with 160 partners, between the four managing partners we would make the
decision and we were all equal. So what do you have to do with decision to be made is
basically the the partners would get together and say, This is the way to do it. Now
sometimes. You know, he had to until but they have to be able to resolve it for the benefit
of the organization. Better We have a three or an odd number, and then two out of the

three could control. So, you know, it's a question of who's in charge.

05:09

One of the one of the principles that we've operated with in several of our projects is this
idea of consensus, which is that even if not everybody agrees with the decision, you'll line
up behind it and support it. So that good, so that you know it because in a vote, which is
the lowest form of consensus, the dissenting voices silenced. What are your thoughts on

that? Is a voting structure worker? No, no, no.

05:37

Basically, there has to be the low, whoever is the dissenters got to learn to go along with
the organization or it gets, there's some way to get rid of that the center, if they give a
good negative, and they have enough authority that we just got to eliminate them as
having these already buy them out, or do something to so that can impede the
organization from operating. In other words, you can't have one partner, or one, whoever
it is, decides how the partner is gonna, how the whole thing is going to be run. And that
partner has a voice, which can silence all the others that lease for very bad organization.
Yeah, the majority has to be able to control majority or an individual tow I'm looking now

back in basically my law firm. You know, we were a dictatorship, but we're the dictatorship
JO

JO

_)O

JO

47:07

So for the folks on the phone, who aren't may not fully be following this. The to explain
this a little bit further. The issue is that you donate a piece of land you make put it into a
Land Trust, you make it a perpetual conservation area. So it's never to be developed. And
in exchange for that you get a deduction for the appraised value of what it could have
been had been developed. So that’s right. So the rather than its value simply as a
agricultural land or or vacant land. So the the, the gray zone here is what what is that
appraised value? And is that going to stand up against against scrutiny? Or is it going to

be accepted by the tax authority?

47:54

Correct. And the same concept applies to giving land where you know, we have some
kind of restriction on it in a municipality, or an area where they say, if you maintain a
greenbelt will reduce your taxes on the area. If you have a keep a golf course that a park,
that you'd get some kind of benefits because because you put an amenity in, but that's
not necessarily from IRS that would be from the municipality will give you a lower taxes on
the rest of the land if you had if you have this park over here. But that's an individual

discussion with a particular. So what

48:28

was the story of the conservation area around the Trump winery in Charlottesville?

Virginia?

48:33

I'm not familiar with it. Okay, I'm not familiar with the law, I'm not familiar with that one
has nothing to do with the acquisition. Okay. There are many other examples which | have
not necessarily involving Trump, where we made an agreement with a municipality that
we would do certain we would restrict the use of certain land in exchange for benefits on
another piece of land, which was nearby. So instead of having the total taxes on both
lands, that boy, they reduced the taxes on the one that you want to keep, because you've
given the benefit of a green space alongside of it. So we build parks where you can get a
tax reduction. So a little bit of a almost a land swap of sorts. Correct? Exactly right. But
this is this is not unusual, and appears in many jurisdictions where effectively they will give
you some type of a bonus for doing something they want. So especially, especially very

been used very well in New York, where if you have areas for the public, for you make
JO

JO

JO

JO

certain areas where the public can use other buildings, they lobby of a building. And they
will say, Okay, if you do that, we'll give you the rights to go higher, although, we'll give you
some additional benefits till that you can recoup the loss of that space. But you have to
agree to keep it open from nine o'clock to 10 o'clock at night or what have you, when it’s
out to the public and you can't do certain things. So it's a swap, but municipalities will do
that.

50:05

| think the Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue is exactly the example you're talking about.
Right?

50:11

Exactly. Right. Exactly. Right. And you look there and that fountain that you're talking
about that the fountain is suddenly in Davos, it's basically seven or eight storeys high as a
fountain on a wall where that's that was there because that space now turned up to be
condominiums on the upper floors, which were very valuable, probably get 10 times $1 per
square foot at those at those higher, higher heights that you find so you're losing
something that's worth it. It's basically has a value of $50 a foot and exchanging for

something and $5,000 a square foot. makes good sense.

50:43

Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Very good. And let's see, we've got one more question. This
one's from Patrick. And he also could not be on the phone. His wife broke his, his wife
broke her arm this week. So. So his question is, George, we're gunning for a project that's
bigger than what we're used to. We're currently trying to find the right partners. And we
know, that involves going through their gatekeepers, apart from the project being the
right fit, sir, anything that we can do when talking to a gatekeeper to maximize our
chances of getting through to the principal's.

51:20

Yeah, the question is, yeah, that basically, the answer is yes. But | would say there are
many brokers that are around that they do this on a basis, they'll get you to the right, we'll
get through it. But they get a commission, if the deal goes through. But they know. They're

the the link between you and the venture capital. And they know which of the which
JO

JO

the area, that picture of the area, whatever you may may be totally distorted because
they don't want to show you the garbage dump in the back. They want to show you the
beautiful buildings in the front. Critical. And generally speaking, if you feel it in your gut

that it's not right, you walk away from it. Great. Thank you. You're welcome.

44:10

All right. What else we have next we have Cara Lee and Cara Lee could not be on the
call. So I'll ask the question for her. So she has a passion around conservation, impact
investing and specifically the model relating to donating land to come to conservation. In
fact, if | remember correctly, there was an example | believe it was the Trump winery that
would actually had a conservation area involved in it. But so her question is have you
come across this as an investment strategy? What are your thoughts on it? The return for

the financial benefit? Is is an income tax abatement. So

44:55

good. All right. I've read it. I'm laughing Okay. Is That's fine, the concept is fine. Getting the
abatement is a bitch. Okay, because he the taxing authority is not going to rely upon
whatever you say it is, they're not going to rely upon that | can only say fine. If it's not, if
you if you want to give it to charity in one form or another, it has to give it to a recognized
charity, which is formed either a 501 C or or only the others, which are in this business as a
recognized charity. If you are making a contribution to a recognized charity, then you are
you got an automatic deduction because the recognized charity, you form your own Jerry
it's on you have a lot more restrictions, in order to be classified as a charity. You have to
his personnel, what you give out how you get out that was and the contemplation of
getting the tax benefit. The way you anticipated, is constant, that's all it is, is
contemplation, any of the the tax oriented transactions in the will many of them, which
had excess depreciation and so forth in the past. And then when the push came to shove,
that IRS just threw them all out. And I'm not when I'm taking it. And unless you revise it,
we're going to give you all kinds of penalties. So it's very has the concept is a good one.
turning it into actuality is a very, very difficult unless you can get some kind of an opinion
from the transaction or the the entity from IRS saying yes, we would agree. You can get a
an opinion before you before you've done it, we would agree that that’s okay. But what
usually happens in this range is you would put a number on it, then you say it's worth it's
good by doing this, this is a $20 million contribution. And IRS come says that's fine, but it's
only two. But if you had something in writing it had it which you can get an opinion from
IRS, they're very reluctant to give it. But basically, if you had that, then you're okay.

Because you're relying on an IRS opinion.
