JO

JO

JO

sub subs have basically given a contract, which is a fixed contract. So the GC says, I've got
all these contracts from my subs, animal together, the job was $10 million. | will agree with

a $10 million based on these subs.

52:08

And if one of them, if one of those subs doesn't deliver, who owns that,

52:14

your problem? Okay, the content subs, | saw you sign your sub contract. Okay? Now, there
are ways to cover that. So you can get bonds for subs that they will deliver on time,
whatever you can get them caught, get and get them covered. You have the reputation,
you can build in what happens if they don't deliver at that point, there are penalties that
are involved. Right? So it’s a it’s just gives you more control. I'll be instead of dealing with
one person, the GC who deals with all the subs, you're dealing with the subs in the GC is
there like it seems like your supervisor, which is fine. Got it? Yeah, anytime you have a
guaranteed contract, for a fixed price, it’s a it's actually a quite a bit, doesn't it's not it
doesn't work, it has a potential not to work out, because there is always a contingency
that he's built in. And if that contingency goes wacky, we'll figure out some way to get it
back. But you will never see. Whereas if you have the subs, the subs are not going to get it
back because they can be very, very specific. And that can be done through your
construction manager, whoever the architect or whatever says he has this is it comes out
with the specs. And this contract is good. And you can also do you do a lot of bidding. So
now you could say somebody is doing this deal. You can take six people, six different
entities and let them bid among take a bid on the on the on the steel work, instead of
having one pick out but you have you have six and you take one you think is best may not
be the cheapest, but the one that's most reliable. It’s got delivery, and you have your UGC
basically, is the one that recommends whoever the sub is going to be. And he doesn't
worry about it because he's going to get a fee no matter who it is. Right on the course of

the contract. Okay, okay.

54:08

Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Well, we didn't get to all the questions tonight, but we'll carry
them over for next month. Right. Actually, it we will not have a call next month you're
going to be on a cruise ship if | remember correctly. That's correct. So the next call will be

in May.
JO

JO

54:23

Right. | will be back at the early part of May. Fantastic. Looks like in the second week of
May 10. Sensitive 16 somewhere around there.

54:33

Okay, fantastic. And | think we have those dates all worked out some Okay, great. Okay,
take care. Thank you. Have a great night, YouTube. Alright, bye for now.

Robert 54:45

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind if you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys radio comm make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind success.
syndicating
JO

JO

happen. And you say, Okay, what do | do? Now? It's a it's a bad situation. But how do we
make the best out of a bad situation? And as long as you analyze it from that standpoint,
you can forever as your VA with a probably will go along with you. what's the alternative? |
mean, with Donald, the attorney is one of the banks right off all his paper, and that would
have killed their financial statement. So rather than write off the paper, they say, Good,
we prefer to continue with you on the hope that things will change. And we don't have to
take the hit on our balance sheet by writing off all this money. See, is this as dire as a
situation may be there's usually there's usually some type of a past that makes sense.
Could be hard, but makes sense. See, is this sort of answering your question? Never give
up? No, no, no, no, I'm not saying never give up. There's certain times you have to give up
it just can’t possibly work out. But that’s very rare. Usually there’s a situation we could
improve whatever you whatever situation you're in. And they look at it, for example, you
love the thing you're talking about without it, you know, they reduced his his income to
$400,000 a month doesn't sound like a lot with an input what his lifestyle was, was far in
excess of that. So now you're restricted, so it’s not going to get worse. So it whatever the
situation is, you can usually talk to sound minds and say, hey, it’s bad. But what can we do
now, to make it better or Look, look, look to the future as bad as it is. So you say that we
think the market will change will do this will drop prices will drop, whatever it is usually
come up as long as the parties are willing to work for it. It's not as bleak as many people
think it is. It's not as cut and dried. And you have to have faith in your work. Okay. Thank

you. You're welcome. Okay, okay, what do we got next?

38:58

Next, let's go over to SAP SAP, you're on the line, you press star six to unmute.

39:08

Hi, George. Hi, Victor. Thanks for taking my question. Okay, no problem. So I've got an
investor was in calm, john. And he's passively invested in my deals. And he's also sub
syndicated to invest as well. And after a few deals, john told me, they had some friends
and family that were interested in investing. So he formed an LLC. And that LLC invested
in one of my offerings, and his family participated in that LLC. So John's brother Chris,
reached out to me yesterday and said that now he wants to invest directly with me on
future deals, instead of having to go through John's LLC and end up being an equity in a
piece of his ROI. And basically, Chris feels that his brother doesn't isn't really entitled. Also
all the proceeds and and portion of his ROI for the future deals. So as | asked him if he had
spoken with his brother john for permission, and he said that john doesn't like the idea of

being Serkan circumvented, and he feels you know, he's owed for that initial introduction,
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

16:43

no. And the question of it was, you're up to your eyeballs with prior exposure, that's that
forget that. This is a contingent liability. You're not a real liability. Right. So it’s a big
difference. You're not signing to pay pay so much, much. You're saying if there's a shortfall,
here | am. So whole different liability. Correct. not unusual in many real estate
transactions? And not a it’s not a question of Am | good for the money? Because it's not?
Your good question is when someone comes up and asks you for money because they
reliably become realistic. That's one thing, but when it's just potential, it’s an entirely
different thing. It may never happen, it probably won't happen. And then you don't know
the extent to which it'll happen.

W725

Right? Yeah. And | guess the other part is, you know, the wording of that liability. Is it
proportional to share ownership? Or is it joint? Several liability? Correct? Because those
are different. Yeah, absolutely. Right. Okay. Very good. That that's helpful. And hopefully,
it's helpful to the folks on on the call as well, because like | said, it’s unfortunate. It's a

common situation and one that we thought we'd covered but not adequately.

17:52

Yeah, yeah, that's it. Well, it’s it's more it's more it right subsidies. gov because adequately,
especially where you have general partners and limited partners, right, right. Yeah, tennis,
then it becomes something that should be covered more in detail. Because the limited
partners, | don't want the contingent liability, the general partners are willing to, but the
general partners basically have a bigger share of the overall pie than the limited partners,
which is right. Yes, yes. Okay. Thank you. Okay. | think that's a good discussion. Good. Just
good problem. not unusual. Yeah. Okay.

18:26

The next question is from Shanna, Shanna, you're on the line? | am. Can you hear me? Yes.

Hi, they can't hear you. Hi, George, how are you?

18:35

lam just fine. How are you today?
JO

JO

JO

Okay, I'm out of here. And he didn't he dug his way out.

34:35

Yes. Yeah. What was the alternative? Didn't have an alternative. what's the alternative? To
get started? He owed so much they couldn't let him go bankrupt. Alright, so he still said it's
this point where he still has they went into the transactions because of his name and his
reputation of being a businessman. That's what what we're attracted to the lenders. And
that didn't change But sir Some stances change the market changed. And he went back
to the to the banks and the investors and said, Look, I'm still the same guy. The market is
not the same. Yes, | overreached. Well, you overreached, worst. Worse, you gave me more
money than you should have gotten, that | should have gotten. You should have been
prettier, you should have protected more, you didn't look into the deals, you were so
happy to make it to do do deals and loan me money. You didn't really, you figured it
would work? Why you weren't a CIT. It weren't a safety valve. But | can make it good over
a period of time. And that's why | want the right to buy the properties back at what they're
worth, not what you loaned me. This is not this situation is something it happened not too
long ago, if you will, because mortgages underwater, correct. With a prop with a
mortgage, the property wasn't worth the amount of the mortgage. But at the time the
mortgage was made, hey, it looked good. It looks good. But it really wasn't because it was
based on on some incorrect assumptions of what would happen in the marketplace. So
that was was good. He said, Okay, here's here | am made mistakes. | over overreacted to
the market. But let's see how we work our way up. That's the key. How do | work my way
out of it?

36:16

| know, it's about credibility. It's a story that | refer to frequently because | asked myself
what you know, whenever I'm dealing with a problem, as difficult as it may seem, and as
large and looming as it may seem, | think back to you know, that story, and | heard Eric
Trump talk about it, you know, frequently, about, you know, how they were kids during
that time period, and that they they lived it. And you know, he dug himself out of

something that big, | can surely dig myself out of whatever I'm dealing with.

36:47

No, absolutely, absolutely understand that that probably what got you what created the
problem was a change that hadn't been anticipated in the market, or whatever it is on the

investments. And that change you couldn't have anticipated. But it did anticipate did
JO

JO

JO

26:16

72 and 12. What are we talking about? No loan to value. Loan. Okay, loan to value. loan to
cost. Okay. Yeah.

26:26

And we've kind of have a late breaking offer right now from a very high net worth family.
They own a major league baseball team to do a spring will pass. No, now that they it
starts with the letter S. Okay. Fred Wilpon was a client of mine, that's the only reason | ask
Oh, okay. Okay. Now it No, it’s Yeah, right. Right. And they, so they're, it's for a stretch
senior loan, up to probably around 85% plus an 8%. Equity kicker. Between the appraised
amount? What's the 8%? equity kicker? Where's that come from? They're saying they
would like in addition to the seen, in addition to the debt, they wanted an equity kicker. So
let's say the loan is valued at 36. And on appraisal upon lease up, let's say the project
appraises at 50, or 51, they want a percent of the difference between 50 and 36. Okay,
that's what they've asked for in the term sheet. Now pretty. Oh, you know, it'll come to
about a million to an additional. It's not exciting. It's not it's not critical. No, it’s not critical.
And at that point, they're out. So yeah. So it's basically it's a think of it almost like a
buyout of 1,000,002. Right. Okay. The one advantage is there a single a one stop shop,
you have the right to buy now. Do you have a right to buy him out? Well, yeah, once that
once we refinance into the permanent financing, and we pay that million to their out.
Okay, got it. Right. Okay. So that's, that's the way the kicker is. Exactly. Okay. That's now,
you know, the other benefit is, it would be non recourse for the full amount, we're right
now, it would be non recourse for the senior and recourse for the mezzanine. So, you
know, the whole thing would be non recourse just with a completion guarantee, which is,
you know, | think preferable, | don't want to burn a bridge with, with the lender that I've
been working with. And if | was to disengage with them, | would certainly do that. So I'm
kind of in a bit of a quandary in terms of where to go, you know, | think the relationship
with a family office that owns a major league baseball team could be very beneficial. And
so I'm kind of a bit bit of a quandary.

28:54

Like, you shouldn't be in very good quandary | would do, | would take the first deal that
you have, until the P tell the people with a baseball team, why you can't do a deal with
them at the present time, but you would we'll do it in the future. Okay. So you now show
that you that you honor your commitments, when you make a deal, this is the works, that

once you get to that point, you're going to do that, even though their deal might be
_)O

JO

JO

JO

slightly better. They're just that it makes you look good, because you you're honoring your
transactions going down? It's not when they say they say that, what if he changed, and
you you put them next and you take over? You can't go back to state to where you were
before? Because you've cut that bridge off. Right? So | would not | would not cut it off. But
| would explain to these people look, there'll be other deals will have will go in,
unfortunately or too late for this one. So I'll give you the next one. And the fact that you
turned them down on an honorable basis because you already had a commitment a prior
commitment. To win the day will sit very well with them. They'll say, Well, yeah, okay. So if |
make a deal with them, they'll they'll honor that deal. Because this is they, when they
when they make a commitment of the deal, they they live up to it. They don't just go for
the highest bidder.

30715

That makes perfect sense. | mean, as soon as you came at it from the from the standpoint
of ethics and integrity, it was crystal clear. Yeah. Yeah. Now, at this moment, we are we
don't, what we have is we have a term sheet, we are in due diligence, we paid a lot of fees
for appraisals and everything else. We don't have a commitment as of yet, but we're
pretty far down. | think that doesn't change anything. | think what you said is still not

exactly

30:41

right. No, it doesn't. No, you're good. You're pretty quiet down the pike and quoted as you
thought there's a lot of thought that’s gonna be | didn't everybody seems to like it. So we
have now at that point with a prime law and a, you know, a contingency on the the
mezzanine over the over the parking lot. That's fine. So both parties will look at it and
come up with compensation works. So | mean, you know, | think it's, it certainly makes it
makes sense, in my estimation, to continue down the road. You're going and it’s the right
path. Right, right. Okay. Very good. Okay,

31:16

what's next? Next is a question from sia, sia, you're on the line? press star six to unmute.

B1:26

Hi there. How are you? I'm fine. Quick question is just just watching, obviously, the
JO

JO

jo

JO

vote. And it's again, they got politics. It's politics in a different country. Yeah. On a different

basis. That’s what it is. Okay, well,

08:03

let's jump into some some real estate questions here. That's good. The first one is one that
| didn't send you. But it's a situation that has come up before we've talked about
something similar. And | think it's something that's going to be a broad interest to folks on
the phone, because it's a common issue. We've got a project where we have six partners,
and the permanent financing on the project is going to require personal guarantees. And
two out of the six partners are not willing to cosign on the debt. So then the question
becomes, you know, some of the they've come back and said, well, then just buy us out.
And I'm wondering if there's a middle ground here? | know, we've talked about similar
situations before. I'd love to get your thoughts on what happens when, you know, partners
who theoretically are all equal, cannot contribute as they in an equal manner. How does
that get handled from an equity standpoint? What are some of the remedies obvious
remedies that come to mind in terms of how to handle that? Well, what was the vehicle is
set to set up whatever you're part of what's the what's the vehicle? It is a it is a limited

partnership?

09:18

Right. Limited Partnership, what was the provisions that were made as far as the cash?
Cool?

09:24

That's a good question. That's a good question. Because what we're talking about is the
GP group, the general partner group, not the limited partners. So this isn’t strictly just a

cash call. This is co signing on

09:38

dollars equivalent, it is potential cash goal. True, true. Yeah. And this would be part This
should be basically covered under the, the papers that set up the the LLP as to how you
cover this, what they do, what the requirements are and all that people should sign on to
the LLP and if they Like, then initially, we wouldn't have the problem because you're not

that they're not asked to do anything. In other words, there's just a technical agreement
JO

JO

JO

12:15

yeah, | understand where you're coming from, is, and unfortunately, where you are, is
something that just acid result, you're pretty far down the pike with it, when this thing first
has come up, when if you want to trade have been or could have been covered, initially in
the papers to put in your liability of x million dollars or whatever. In other words, it should
be some would have been some qualifications as to what the lot what the exposure was,
so that they know what to expect. And then he came back out, right, right. They say, okay,
you will be you will understand that your you will be liable to the extent of your
investment, or 50 50% of your investment or what or something to in more detail. It's
much harder to do now. But nevertheless, it still can be done. And it's just a it's a technical
exposure, not really a realistic exposures. So somebody else might pick up the pick up the
slack. And you can provide if someone picks up the slack, and says, Okay, | will go
personally on that they should get, they should get rewarded for the fact that they took on
the responsibility when the when the other people didn’t want to do it. So maybe the
share gets reduced to nor they end up with, with a different category or different things
because somebody took on an exposure that they didn't want to take on. So if they didn't
agree to take on the exposure at that they want to lose something as a result of that
disagreement.

13:39

Right. Right. So if they have, let's just talk in round numbers, let's say they own individually
10% ownership individually of the entity, you know, in exchange for, you know, kissing that
piece of paper, the personal guarantee, then you might someone might pick up two or
three points of additional equity. Absolutely,

14:03

| believe as a result of taking over that exposure, right. And then correspondingly, they
would lose, even if even if the exposure never occurs. Correct? Correct. In other words,
they cannot have potential liability. So if I'm going to take you out of that you're going to
lose your position gets the lesson. Because you were taking exposure, you didn't want to
give them the opportunity to say do you want to take the risk? Or do you want to lose
party? You want to have your interest diminished? Yes, that makes that makes perfect
sense. Yeah, but buying out is not the answer. That's my they should they shouldn't get the
didn't get the opportunity say, Well, if you don't like what if | don't do what you want me to
do buy me out? That's nonsense, unless you're buying them out on very favorable terms.

Right. Right. That does make sense. Correct. So you say a goodwill goodwill will pay you
JO

JO

JO

JO

anything, you know, come up with, except except to try anything else. And it's, it's Trump's
for they were against. So as long as it's that partisan, you got to there, there are certain
you know, | just don't see anything really coming out of it. And who knows, but there's
going to be an awful lot of stuff that’s going to come out is the time. Now, if you look at
how many potential candidates there are for president, and some of the ideas that
coming up with just so so a way out of balance, you know, you got to get rid of fossil fuels,
you got to do this. We're going to have the good the green team. And it's just got to get
down to common sense. And | think the American people generally the average person is
smart enough to, to look through it and say, What are you really doing? It's important for

me, unless you get to that you're going to lose the votes. What's interesting?

06:39

It is it is we're definitely living in interesting times, as they say,

06:43

yes. Well, you look what's going on in Britain? | mean, what more do you need to do that?
They don't know what to do with Brexit, and they're having their own problems there. The
House of Commons doesn't agree with that. It was a point where the, the House of Lords
and they don't agree with the Prime Minister. And meanwhile, at the public, hearing,
people took a stand. They went out of the EU. So the people want to go one way, but the
government can't come up with a plan that makes sense, or whether it works through. So
you got a similar situation where the people have expressed a will but the government
hasn't followed it?

07:18

Well, | mean, the people have expressed a will but only marginally. If you think about it,
the margin of the win was less than 1%. And within 24 hours of the vote, it was
acknowledged publicly by the proponents of the of the of the Brexit movement, that they
in fact lied about some of the benefits that really came out within 24 hours. So if a second
referendum were held today, the UK having suffered some very significant economic

impact, not obvious to me that the Brexit movement would win.

07:48

Probably you don't know. You don't know. But it’s hard to really want to get it to another
JO

_)O

JO

the GC has been okay, well, what about the contingency, you know, if you're taking away

or contingency and it’s a lump sum contract.

49:19

You don't need it, but not in a lump sum contracts, not a lump sum contract with the GC,
right? You're the GC is that guaranteeing that the job will be complete for the number of
dollars you're talking about? If that's what you're talking about, we're not on the same
wavelength. So | say now that that the Jace GC that this is his, I'll put all this I'll put all the
subcontractors together all the contracts, I'll bid them out or you can bid them out. And I'll
get a certain percentage for the total job over and above the cost of the contract. Right.
So there’s no contingency and raw because the contracts of the the subs. So the job good
job comes into $5 million. | get to 7% In got increased foot foot foot doing getting the
subs together and following the job. Now the lender, I'm not guaranteeing the subs. I'm
just saying this, you got the contract, I'll follow the contract. Right right now though there's
no no need at that point, there’s no contingency involved, the contingency would be in the
subs not in the GC, okay? Because the subs at that point now would bid on it. And they
could put into contingency. Because you say, Good, | want a fixed contract for this. So you
just | want to know, you're going to deliver this deal come hell or high water, and here's
the price. All right now, and | don't care if it goes up or down, or whatever it is, or the price
do What up, you're gonna deliver the steel to my job for X number of dollars under this
contract. That and that. The the sob has to be when he does that. He’s agreeing to take
that and you can build in whatever whatever contingency you want. | don't care what it is,
because he gave me a guaranteed contract. So if the price of steel went up or down or
whatever, that's his problem, not mine, from the lender to get a guaranteed contract, a
guaranteed contract from the sub, which instead of the guaranteed contract, or from a

GC covering all of the subs

51:20

from the lenders perspective. So the the lender does a ton of due diligence on the GC to
convince themselves that they can do deliver. And with that guaranteed maximum price
or some form of guarantee, they know that the project's not open ended, it's going to

complete for the price that it’s being quoted, if now they have to go to 17 subs,

91:41

and No, they don't go to 17 subs, basically the GC to a certain extent, it can guarantee the

subs says this is it, I've dealt with the subs, that's what they're gonna do. But he's given the
JO

_)O

JO

JO

Department investigation after two years and close to, | don't know, $25 million 580
witnesses over a million pages and documentation found nothing. What are you thinking?
Well,

01:16

my feeling was ill conceived when it started out. And it's certainly the results of at this
point indicate that it’s a lot of money that we spent on something that was never really
there, which was basically Russia collusion. There was no question. There was no question
previously that Russia had interfered in, in elections in the past and was almost every
country. So that wasn't a surprise, but that there was a thought that Trump colluded?
Because ultimately he may have ended up as the beneficiary because we the emails, the
Clinton emails and the fact that the Democratic Party was hacked into that, but that was
collusion. | just thought was open, see what they went through it. And | think it's a it's a big
waste of time. It's a lot of time, a lot of money. And the result is meager. Government a lot

more, a lot more to do. It’s more important than what was done. But politics or politics.

02:16

There's been a lot of discussion about the weaponization of various bureaucracies and
government, and that maybe they're, you know, bureaucracies not supposed to be
partisan. It's supposed to be independent. It's supposed to be an arm of the government,

but not politically affiliated.

02:31

Absolutely. Absolutely. This was a political affiliation. There's no doubt in my mind anyway,
that this was political. And the feeling was that | got out of it is that the is what the powers
that be in the various departments did not want wanted the pillory to win and didn't want
Trump to win, and they were preconceived. And when he did win at that point, they were
very upset and said, This shouldn't have happened. And we're willing to do basically
anything if to try to upset if that's my feeling. But you know, what, it’s hard people, you
know, they're, they're human beings, but they their political bias should not interfere in the

performance of their duties when they're a part of an investigative agency. Exactly.

03:19

Exactly. What do you think much power? What do you think this means for the balance of
JO

JO

18:37

I'm great. Thank you. And thanks for that last question. | think that will come in handy for
my future challenges as well. Absolutely. So my husband and | are looking at a bit of a
transition in our business. We are experienced at raising capital for smaller deals like
single family homes. And now we're transitioning to larger projects that require more
capital, and we don't have those investors within our network. So we're struggling a little
bit with figuring out how to transition to raising larger amounts of money, potentially from
a different target audience. Where would we find those people? And how would we
approach different types of people differently? For example, if it was, you know, high

income professionals versus, you know, more, just everyday Joe kind of situation? Yeah,

19:30

that's a very good question. And one that's very common today. Especially if when you're
going from one group to another group another way, because the the people that have
the money don't necessarily have the same interest going forward, somewhat. willing to
take greater risk with greater reward always want to get a certain amount of cash, and
basically, just security. The answer is a simple one. It's simple, but why do | say simple The
concept is simple. In actuality, it's not. And that is you should create some type of a
Chinese menu. So you have different classes of investment, which get a return, ultimate
return based on how secure they are. So you can have a, some part of somebody's
investment, that's pretty secure gets a certain rate of return on a priority basis. And what
it paid out of cash or not, is not the answer, but they get a priority return. But it’s, it's, it's
not as great as those that take the ultimate risk. So now you say so you say putting in a,
you get, you get somebody who's willing to invest a million dollars just to pick out a
number says, Okay, | want on my apologies, | started $500,000 at a 5%, guaranteed 5%
return. And the other 500 is, is part of a good go into equity. And that sits it sits behind the
first first investment. Or it could be two or three layers, so of different types of investment
with different types of risk, depending on what it is that the particular investor wants. So
the key to doing this, is to find out what the appetite is for the high for the investors that
are willing to put in a lot of money, right? can be a situation where the investors for
investors, there are very few investors who say, Okay, | will, I'll put in a million dollars, but |
want to know, in five years, it's worth 10, or | lose a million, that's all or nothing type of
situation, you don't want to find too many. | mean, there are depends on the nature of the
risk, all or nothing. On the other hand, we give you can be be less than that, well, | would
figure All right, that | would have an ROI of 15% 10%, over the period of time over a tiny 10
years, and I'm on my money will be relatively protected. That's another possibility. And
there are all sorts of alternatives, you can chop that into pieces, depending upon what the

the appetite is of the particular investor. And you will find that the investors, if they have
JO

JO

JO

JO

financial advisors, which they generally do, if they're high income will come up and say,
yeah, this is what I'm looking for. So | split this X number of dollars in one type of
investment X number of dollars in a different type and up until you got the amount of

money that you're looking for in a total investment. And that works.

22:33

Okay, so that that makes sense to me in terms of working with the person's priorities. Do
you have any suggestions for places to go or events to go to, to meet some higher net

worth or higher income people

22:59

with the higher income first, they got to come up with what you're willing to do what you
got to come up with a plan. So when you have a business plan, which indicates what
you're doing, then you find then you from the business plan you can now look at at high
high investors, or there are basically what the potential is. And there are companies or
brokers, which have these connections, right. So my link to they're willing to go and use a
fly, here's what | got, | got the following transaction. | have people that can do this. And
now we're going out from into buying big apartment houses or we're shopping whatever it
is some type of investment. And here's what we're in what cap what range, we're talking
about X number of millions of dollars. Here's what it looks like over a period of time. Here
is a basically our prototype, our anticipated business plan of what it's going to look like
over a period of years, how long you're going to be in when you're going to get your
money back what the degree of risk is. And do you have investors which will be interested

in and generally they do.

23:56

So then going forward build into the plan, some type of finder’s fee, for other words, be
able to bring in Yes, absolutely. Gotcha.

24:07

Okay. Yeah, that's somebody get a finder's fee for bringing me in, based upon how many
people you bring in how many dogs? Absolutely. Gotcha. Perfect. And then in terms of
wine, there are there are this is not an unusual category to get into the marketplace. And

even if you do some type of advertising or some type of promotions, so that they know
Ollee

PC-March-2019-Mastermind-Call-with-
George-Ross

ge Jhu,9/94:00PM @ 55:02

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, gc, deal, contract, guaranteed, subs, question, money, partners, investors, contingency,

john, problem, investment, point, liability, george, trump, situation, Il

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication memory club. It's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

Oo :
A 00:06
Hello. Good evening, George. Hi, Victor. How are you? I'm all yourself. Good. Can't
complain. Good. | was muted there for a moment. Sorry about that. That's okay.
Oo ;
A 00:17

Okay, well, we will have a bunch of more folks joining in here over the coming minutes.

But why don't we dive right in? Okay. at your leisure. Okay. Well, welcome everyone. This is
our monthly mastermind call with Mr. George Ross. George is obviously well known for his
role as Mr. Trump's right hand man for close to 37 years, the co star of the TV show The
Apprentice, author of two best selling books on real estate and negotiation, taught in the
law school at NYU for over 20 years. And just an awesome, awesome human being glad to
have you here with us again, George. Thank you. Glad to be here. So George, let's start

with the news. It’s been a pretty exciting week. The big news, of course, the Justice
JO

JO

President's

31:37

presidency. And just like how he's able to handle so much adversity? Where does he get alll
this strength from? Because | know, as entrepreneurs, we always go through tough times.
Where does he get his strength to push through and just handle all the challenge, right,
this strength from basically is having analyze the transaction, whatever it is, at the
earliest date, coming up with a game plan that you think makes good sense and then
following it. So as long as you're in the ballpark, going along, the route that you had
previously considered going over, even though there might be some deviations on is, is
fine. But there's a safety valve, the safety valve is you got to know when to get out. And
when it doesn't, so you have to follow effectively what's taking place in the short run, to
figure out what you're going to do in the long run. So if you've, if you've done that, and
you've got a game plan, you can see how close you are to the game plan. So when you
start out with a transaction, running transaction, | always look at it, you have to have a
critical path. Critical Path is say, here's where | am today. And then somewhere down the
pike is the end, five years, 10 years, two years, whatever it is, that’s the critical path. And if
you figure out, here's where | am, where do | intend to be at the end, and what will have
happened, if you can live with what's at the end, that's the day and Doomsday thing and
say, gee, that’s the worst I've taken in to consideration all the devil potential curves in the
downturns. If | can live with that, it makes sense to do the transaction, because it
probably won't happen that way, you probably end up with something better than what
you had. Now. So if you've done that, the next thing is to track it, over your period of time
over months, two months, five months, whatever it is, you build in the different categories
as to where you are and what's going on. So you can you can see whether or not how
close it is to what you thought was going to happen. And you guessed on originally, which
was a good guess. Now, if you do that, and you follow it on a basis, you can get the
ceiling, | have comfort because what | did was okay is slightly different, but it's not critical.
It's not terrible. Once you figure out is terrible, you got to get out. And that's the point to
say, hey, forget it. It's so far afield from what | had anticipated. And this is such a bad deal.
| got to cut it short and take whatever loss it is, and that's a hard thing to do. But that's

also very important. Well, but George, if you

34:12

think for a moment, you know, at one point, Donald was 980 million in the red or
something like that. No, no. 990 million. Sorry. All right. Don't Don't try. Don't try 10 million.
That's right. That's right. You know that that's a number that would make most people say,
JO

JO

JO

said, yeah, if this happens, where were we, here's where we are. And all these limitations of
liability could have been covered in the in the documentation itself as they would come

up with 50% 80% of what have you, or it’s not personal was a limitation at that point. The
limitation should be how much of what the money is in the in the yellow in the yellow, LLP.
| mean, that's the limit. That's the extent there's only liable than | personally liable, but
they're liable that their investment is liable. And that's where it should be. So there's a
limitation if it was handled in an appropriate manner in the documentation is set up the
LLP seems to me that that he will shorten that point. And that's, that’s what's creating the
problem,

10:51

that that could well be, and there's, there’s more than one entity involved. So there's the
limited partnership, there's the entity that holds the property. And then there's a
management company, and there's involvement, all of the parties in each so it's not clear
which one would take precedence. | mean, clearly the Prop, the entity that holds the
property is the one that is the borrower. But they're not necessarily the guarantor, the
guarantees flow through individually that’s not contemplated in the in the operating
agreement of the of the entity that holds the property.

11:27

No, | understand. So it seems to me that this is this is something that requires clarification.
But with the little the general partners or what have you, this should be a limitation
liability. How What are we talking about in dollars? | don't know why they would objective
was only a certain amount of dollars involved, their personal estate should not be directly
involved with their investment, certainly in the partnership trivia, and | don't think they'd
object to that.

11:49

Right. | mean, it's it's not a huge loan. It's, it's only 1,000,008. But yeah, you know, one, one
of the partners for example, just finished doing another loan personally have a million for
to buy real estate brokerage. So he’s, he's leveraged up to his eyeballs and doesn't feel like
he's in a position to take on any additional liabilities, whether they're contingent liabilities
or not. So
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

Yeah, there is plenty of money floating around from many different countries and many

different people that are looking for these investments.

24:37

Gotcha. So getting perfect. That makes sense. So getting the right audience through
through marketing, and then networking with the right.

24:45

Yeah. Yeah, the key, as far as I’m concerned, is getting the right is, is having a flexible type
of marketing. So it's not a situation where you say, Well, I'm only interested in an investor
who's ready to come up with $5 million | brought a particular project with a, it's not
saying, Yeah, | don’t mention it. So you might be 5 million, 1 million, 2 million, we put
something high income producing some with security, some with less security, some
guarantees. So without guarantees, it's really a Chinese menu type. And you can take, you
can have as many different phases or different pieces of this pie that somebody looks at,
say, | like that. And they can tailor it to the whoever they're the party putting up the

money is

25:30

not just a trade off between return and security. And

25:39

absolutely, very well put trade off return to return to security. Absolutely. Perfect. That's
very helpful. Thank you very much. You're welcome. that's a that's a great answer. So

George, we've

25:45

got a kind of a similar lending situation, this one’s kind of this one's in our business. And
we're pretty far down the path of negotiating with a lender on a non recourse
construction loan. The structure involves senior debt and mezzanine both together to a
total of 85% loan to value. And we've got the senior debt at 73 and the the mezzanine at

12 or something like that. And we have
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

out. You will put you out of it but you pay we're paying out over a period of years it was it
was a very low, low return. But you get your money back, but and you don't have the
uptake of the of what the partnership is. But you're just not need not going to be
unreliability. Right, so you're out. But when you're out on the accessible turns, I'm not

going to come up with with for with fresh cash to get to solve your problem.

15:15

Okay, | mean that that does offer another avenue. So to just focus on terms over over an

extended period of time.

15:23

Yeah. And | think when you do that, you'll probably find it, they'll change their mind.
Rather than give up the potential because it's only a potential exposure, not a realistic
exposure. The shortfall of the personal guy chases things just, you know, it’s there, but it's
not immediate. So they may say, Well, I'll take the risk. That’s what will happen rather
than give up with what | think is a good deal. Right, right. Right. Yeah. interesting situation.

Wea

Would you from a negotiation standpoint, would you suggest offering both alternatives

simultaneously, or just one?

16:00

Just one, if you can, but you can offer both, whatever you think is best. In other words,
whatever the ones that whatever the partner is limited by that is they're willing to take on
the risk, which is, which is only a potential risk. It’s not a real risk, but they ought to be
compensated for that and good. And if they can say, well, you're not really my partner,
because you didn't stand up to the plate when | did. And therefore we're gonna buy you
out on a strong attractive terms for us. That's fine, too. | mean, there's a shortfall here is

that they? your partner's got cold feet. Wonderful runway journalists.

16:36

Right. Right. Yeah. It’s not a reflection on the project or the partnership. No, non personal

circumstance? Yeah, no, no,
JO

_)O

JO

this first term in the presidency?

03:27

| think he’s a shoo in. | think he’s a shoo in unless the democrats come up with with a with
a strong potential candidate and come up with start talking about things that people
really want to hear about are concerned about it, that's that's my fault. | mean, there are
major they started now, | mean, he threw omega Trump threw him a hot potato, which is
which was good. Now that they want, he wants to try to upset the or let the court upset
Obamacare, which is what they want us to do long ago, except that the you know, it was
voted down. But the question of healthcare is extremely important, and something that
they read, it resonates with the people. And | think that plus, working on infrastructures,
and things that are meaningful are something that the Congress ought to do, but they're
too, too much concerned about fighting each other as a party than they are really doing
something. That's the best, though that's appropriate for the country. | think that people

have been shortchanged. But that’s the media.

04:27

If the national discourse continues along with, you know, as an additional lady to
witnesses being asked to testify in front of Congress. That's ridiculous. That's a waste of

time. Right? If that continues, what do you think the impact will be on 2020?

04:42

| think Donald, | think that the people will will go to get a prompting. They're going to
they're going to basically say if there’s the best the democrats can come up with and
forget it. We'd rather have Trump for another four years. And you know, going far afield
from what they should be doing or look into his personal finances. You are Have a look
into his business practices. | mean, they you know, this is the president, what what he did
before is important, but not they're not talking about crimes, they're talking about the
looking looking for something that they can use as a weapon to this roll back at him that
the people will be unhappy with. And the bulk of the people, my feelings don't really care.
They're not there, they're not they're not really concerned about it. And if you look at the
polls, they're not, they're interested in things that affect their pocketbook, this doesn't
affect their, their their pocketbook, or their livelihood or their jobs. And | think the obits is
going in the wrong track. And | think that the, you know, effectively they continue down
that track, | think it will backfire on the Democrats, because they haven't come up

whatever they come up with is a plan, what do they want to do? They haven't done
JO

JO

JO

if you have a broker, or a finder that you dealt with and got good results, the stay with
that finder, as long as he's producing an agenda as part of the cost of doing business, but
you find out because you'll find out that's the way to go. Because there's an element of
trust that’s been set up over a period of time. And that is very important. Yeah, couple of
nudges is that you want to turn it down, you know, we'll do it, you'll become much more of
a stalwart person in the minds of Chris, that you don’t cut out, you cut out somebody, just
because you're asked to do it. And that, and the fact that Chris is asking, he shouldn't he
can ask john, and say, Hey, john, are you taken too much? | don't. On the transaction. take
less, give me half whatever, that’s fine. That's between them. The two brothers. Don't get

involved with a family situation.

43:46

That's the worst. Okay. Yeah, that's also when the consciousness fell on me as | was just
hoping to see if there was another way to negotiate. It does seem like the right thing. The
ethical thing to do. That's right. Very important. Great. Thank you very much. You're
welcome. What's next? Okay, next.

44:07

This is one that may sound a little bit esoteric, but it's one that we're facing. And | thought
it would actually be a broad general interest as well. We're working with a general
contractor, and we're bouncing between two different choices. One is what's called a
guaranteed maximum price, GMP construction contract, a lump sum, this is to build an
apartment complex. And of course, the difference between those two centers around the
contingency and who deal in who owns it and who, and how does it get spent? And
likewise, if there is if it's understand, then who gets the money? So for example, you know,
if we save a million dollars, does it flow to the GC or does it flow? Is it split between the
owner and the GC?

44:54

No, | hate the bad you. You've just really you threw two curveballs you realize that Yes, |
do. Yeah. Yeah. So | like to say the first one. Yeah, let's take the first one, a guaranteed
price. On a guaranteed price. He says somebody Okay, here's a here's what is I'll build it
complete for X dollars. Yeah. All right, whatever, whatever comes up, if | save, save money,
that's mine. If it costs me more, that’s my problem. So they build in to that contract
reserves that they think they're never going to use. And they say, Okay, fine. So I've got,

I've already built in the contingency. And if it's more or less doesn't make any difference,
JO

because I'm guaranteed to deliver this contract, or this product, this product for that price.
That's guaranteed. All right. Now, the other one is, this point is a different way that people
do that is many times we've had it, we've never done it like that, because you find out that
in order to meet the price of the contract, if it's going to go over the GCF, go cut
something to make it work that you'll never see. Right? Alright, so he put in, so you get,
you get a, you get less steel, you Whatever it is, is, because he doesn't want he doesn't
want, I've get left holding the bag that | made a bad deal, it cost me more than | had. So |
figured out how to save some money with you as we'll never see. So | can tell you honestly,
that is all the times we did. Trump never did that type of a deal. never write, what he did
do was a cost plus basis. When | say cost plus, fine, you will go out, and the GC shops, all
of the contracts all of the subs, and comes back with the prices of the subs, and you
approve, approve the prices of the subs, and the GC gets a fee, though he's got a certain
certain fee along the way. So he knows now that whatever the cost, may be, he’s gonna
get 7%. But you have the right to get the bids on the individual contracts. And he has to
satisfy that the contracts were there. So that you can't, he can't basically chisel on the
contracts, you can't reduce them because you're paying for it. And it saves money
because he never guaranteed it. So he’s now saying, here's what you buy that you can do
with the steel for X dollars. And here's the contract. And he gives you the contract and
says here's what is the guide to this wizard, you got some architect or engineer that says
yeah, this meets the specifications, and you got the reputation of who's ever doing it. And
you can actually go out and bid it go, the bid is not from the GC. But the advantage from
the E is you're getting it from the sub who's doing the work. And you put it all together.
And you have that’s how you get the total cost of construction. Now, as long as you have
the contract, you had all the contracts, that’s your total cost of construction, without a
reserve, and it shouldn't be reserved, because you're going out with the contracts. Right?
Now, you may have subdivided with, you may get guaranteed contracts from the subs, so
that that point so that they say they say I'm going to deliver this seal for X number of
dollars. And they can say you're fine. And this is valid, here’s your specifications, I'll meet
those specifications for this number. And they could build in a contingency that they're
satisfied they can deliver it. So what you have is you have a guaranteed contract for
individual contractors, instead of a GC. Are you with me? Yes, yes. Now, depending upon
who the subs are, it could be very important. If it’s a big sub with a big job, you will you be
more concerned about less less concerned that the so that's basically | think that was

what | found as best the better way to go, because you are more in control.

48:51

And that’s what we've been asking for is that lump sum contract where where we're
paying a fixed price to the GC and then the subs are guaranteeing their individual

divisions. Correct. Fine. That's That's good. And that just really the discussion has been for
JO

JO

JO

even a future deals. So |, I'd like to work with both of them by filling my loyalties is still to
john, because he's the one who made that first introduction. None of the legal
documentation has any type of wording for bidding any type of like future investments,
that I'm not necessarily obligated to pay john a commission, but |, | want to act in good
faith. And | do want to admit, | definitely don't want to burn any bridges. So if you're in my
shoes, how would you negotiate? recommend negotiating this? To find like a solution that

works out for everyone?

40:54

But solution workout and second workout? The basic intuitive The problem is not with, it's
not your problem. The problem is with Chris. In other words, what Chris wants to cut john
out of out of a part of the profit, or part of the grab the gun, that's bad. You got the you
know, it's like you who you brought to the dance, john came to the dance, you stay with
him for the physique. And the basic problem is Ruth's. Chris, as you say, Hey, Chris, if this is
what | pay, you agree to pay john, he made the he made a motion, if you don't like it as
john, you want part of that transaction, you want part of his feet, that's fine. But | will deal
with john, | don't want to deal | don't want to go around. Going around him as a bad very
bad situation doesn't doesn't generally work. And what you find now is the fact that Chris
is asking you this league raises all kinds of questions. Because what he wants to cut it
brother out, | don't like that. In other words, his his his brother is the one that brought him
into the deal. Now he says, Okay, | don't need you anymore, because I'm already there.
That's it. It's not, it's not really the honorable thing to do, and not something that you
should be part of. Right.

42:04

I've got an additional question here, SAP, and I'm wondering, and | agree with everything
that George said, but is the fact that john is sub syndicating creating two classes of
investors, the ones who invest with you directly that get a one rate of return, we'll call it x.
And then folks who invest through john, they get a different rate of return their second

class citizens. Is there that two tier structure? Yeah, that's

42:30

fine. | see. What you're saying is that john sub, john takes the position, he subdivides it, he
gets other investors to go with him, that's fine. That's that's between him and his other
investors that didn't enter into a transaction at all. And the same way that you should not

go to try to get those other addresses on a direct basis. Oh, this is a very similar situation,
