You have to find a good you have to get into you have to get them to order you have to
understand what their assets are, what they're looking for, how old they are, what are they
planning in the future. This is financial management or financial planning. And almost any
high into the high worth individual today has a financial planner. And I'm saying good for
your concern. You become part of that financial planning and find out what they're really
looking for. And that's that’s the way you'll you'll get more money from them and then
they'll be more than happy with what. Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome. Okay,
Victor, we drew. Hello. Hello. Sorry, | was on mute. Do we have time for one more quick

question. All right. Well, we're at the we're at the top of the hour, it's quick.

94:54

_)O

Okay, so this is a situation that's fairly similar to today's where it's It's, it’s an investor who
has a property manager that's not performing. They're not responding to investor queries,
they're not providing financials. And and this partner is a minority partner, what can they

do to compel the property manager to start turning over books and records?

DoaI2

JO

Okay, very simple with this. So this is to say, | understand the situation that the solution is
very simple. Every manager, every manager at that point has a fiduciary responsibility to
his investors, and to the people he worked for. Now, if in fact, he doesn't produce that, that
means you got to act in an appropriate manner. But doesn't that get to a point, you will
be may end up starting some type of starting an action for breach of that fiduciary
relationship and damages as a result of what you've lost by the fact that they've acted in
properly. Now, | don’t think not necessarily that that's going to end up in litigation as you
want. That's not it, but at least when you start the breach of fiduciary responsibility, you're
going to get their attention and you'll get you'll probably get a solution, which in the early
stages move leecher desires. Okay, makes sense. Okay. Terrific. Thank you, George. Thank
you. Okay, honey, take care. Thank you. Have a great night. See you next month. Okay.
Okay, bye for now.

© Robert 56:28

There's another monthly edition of the George Ross mastermind. If you've got a question
for George, just send an email to ask George at Real Estate guys. radio.com make sure
you get your questions in at least two days before the next mastermind successful

syndicating
PC-May-2019-Mastermind-Call-wit Page 23 of 23 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
_)O

JO

meeting it. But if you have to live with it, capital live with it, but don’t try to change it or
convince them that they're overreaching. That's something that politicians you can't
teach them, that whatever they want to listen, they have their own ideas. | give you a case
in point this to go on his way. In | did the lease with the government on Trump's Hotel in
Washington, it's the most obnoxious lease you've ever seen are ever seen as to how you're
going to run the property. Alright, and what happens if you don't do this, what happens
you don't run the property. And when it came up, basically, | said, did exactly what | said,
Fine, take all the languages good. Because you know what happens? What happens is the
guy who wrote the language is going to be gone in two years, and the property will still be
there. And later on, somebody else is going to have to interpret it. And they don't want to
interpret it because they didn't write it. So if you get it written the way you want, you
haven't got a chance of doing it. If later on you say I'll worry about it. If and when it
occurs, then that's the time really do it. Because it may never occur. And the
circumstances could be entirely different at a point in time. You will in this case, they're
blocking. They're blocking approval of the project. So Oh, good, whatever it is, don't block
approval, what do you need to get the approval? Get the approval, say good, we'll live
with what you have. That's all write it up? Because the language is going to leave you
leeway anyway. Trust me that this is going to be the language. If and when the situation
occurs, you're going to have room in the language to wiggle. That's not what it what |
interpret is not what what | thought it was. And what's the penalty if you don't, if you don't
do it, the penalties got to be to live up to something. But in order to do that, since the
penalty, they got to tell you in violation, what's the violation. So if you're, | would be more
concerned about what happens in the future. If and when it happens, and then try to stop

it in the early stages, you're not going to get whoever it is to agree to that.

42:28

So George, | think the issue here in this case is as opposed to writing the building code to
comply with the rest of the assisted living it. They're basically asking us to build it to the
same standard as a hospital. Understand. So it's just adding a lot of cost for no particular
reason other than what | said, well, when you say a standard of a hospital, what are they
asking you to do that you wouldn't do. They want fire rated windows, they want us to
spend 10,000 a door so that the fire can withstand. So the door can withstand fire for 45

minutes.

43:00

But that’s the code was whatever is the code, they they have the right to determine the
codes. They're saying, Hey, this is this is a hospital. So it's going to add to the cost. So it is
JO

jo

JO

JO

JO

20:23

okay. So the next question is actually related to property management. So it's another
property management situation. Hayden, are you on the call? can press star six to

unmute.

20:33

Can you hear me? Yes, | can hear me. There you go. Hey, George, my name is Hayden. |
am a self storage operator, Glenn? And | want to Yeah, yeah, like, we own a portfolio of
self storage. And we brought on some third party management, you know, independently
to run two of our sites. And those people, they really just didn't run at the same speed of
what we were expecting,

21:02

you know, kind of unsatisfied with their work. So we're in the process of getting rid of
them. And actually, on June 1, we'll be taking our properties back over from them. It’s two
properties out of that portfolio. On in the same location, the same here, there's a separate
different states, different states. Okay.

21:20

This one's in Georgia ones in Alabama. So okay. So it's a two prong question. My first
question is, what would you advise in a transition from taking a property back over from
third party company like this? What really should we watch out for? I've never been in this

situation.

21:42

Make sure at that point, you get all the books and records, and all of the information that
you're satisfied and you make it is orderly transition as soon as possible. And | don't think
that should be a problem. Sure, sure, is. Put in put in whoever you're putting in now, at
that, to do the management, you get them involved, so that whatever they would need
their, their their party to getting all the documents, all the books and records, and all

information they need you do it on a friendly basis.
JO

JO

JO

things like that. And the state of Louisiana has reinterpreted their code. And they're now
trying to classify what's essentially an assisted living facility that caters folks with
dementia as a limited health care facility. And that triggers all kinds of different rules in
terms of, you know, fire suppression requirements and other other requirements that are
pretty, pretty costly. And we are in the process of mounting and appeal to that change in
code interpretation. And with your, you know, I'm assuming you've probably been in a lot
of meetings with private groups trying to convince public officials to make an exception or
break a rule or do something because it's in the public interest. And also, it’s the right
thing to do for the clients and customers. And | was just curious if you had any advice that
we could take to the meeting to allow us to, you know, we're drafting a multiple page
letter, and the letters essentially involve everything from interpreting the code wrong. We
also

39:11

by gotcha, good luck. At this point, you're going to need it because they're not gonna
listen to you. They're gonna do what they want to do anyway, goes to the politically are
oriented. Sure. And these are, these are not smart people, these are people filling a
particular job, and whatever they think it should be, definitely it's going to come up and
that's the way it’s going to be written. And I'd say good, you have to live within that. But
don't worry about it. Got it. In other words, in the event that something drastic happens,
which is a possibility, but remote, then you can fight you can fight it then but don't fight it

Now.

39:46

Got it. So let me ask you a question. Maybe just rephrase. Let's assume that you actually
thought the government officials did want to hear our appeal. What would your approach
be?

39:55

Forget it. Okay, well, the handily appeal or not at that point, if you can build something in
stay within it within the framework and it’s going to make money for you. Within the the
the, the code or the existing code, don't worry about all the foreign language. Because
divine language is only important when there's when something happens is a
catastrophe. Or you have to look at it, what you talk about fire suppression, and you talk
about all this, no, they will always they will always in determining what the code is

determined that themselves, and they're going to tell you that do the best you can in
JO

JO

be found out. | would never work after 530 at night, never. | wanted to go home and deal
with my wife and children, | found that that part of it was was more important. And
whatever problems | had, | left in the office at 530, the next morning, when | went in at
eight, they were fine, | could | could solve it, | found my mind would start to turn off after
five o'clock, because it's just you're doing too much, and you keep your mind going absorb
it all. And since | was dealing in very big numbers for other clients, it was very important
not to make mistakes. So | did that. That was became my lifestyle. | also developed a
situate a philosophy, which | think you can certainly develop or anybody else knows figure
out how much every every year, how much money you making? And how much money is
spending? And what are you happy with what your lifestyle is. Because if you find out,
you're spending more than you're making, what happens you got to you got to either
make more or spend less to Simple as that. And | don't care what your lifestyle is to figure
out but it’s figure out how much would you how much money would you like to make
every year? And to live the lifestyle that you would like? What would you be willing to do?
And it varies on individual? And always have if you have to decide yourself at the bar, how
big a house do | would do | want a house to a water department, how big a car Do | need
a car. So you do this, and | do whatever I've done it every year, for the last 40 years.
Because | said that to myself, | will never permit myself or my family to be poor, we will
always live within our means. And in order to do that | every year | put down his how much
money coming in. And here are the expenses. And if | go ahead and they have to balance
out. So if | need something else | haven't got | gotta make more money. But if | if | if I’m
spending more than I've got, I'm gonna cut down on expenses. And then check it next
year, every year. And it just changed as you get older that boy you got more money, it
says you got your knees maybe less. And you at least you know what you have a balance.
You feel like you're solid, you're handling the problem. So you don't want to look at it say
now, if | said to you now, how much money do you would you want now to be able to
retire? And you're in your said 40? Yeah, 40 minutes? You're good? Good. Are you planning

on retiring? Maybe 6065? How much money?

32:59

|| have a different slightly different philosophy, which is I've had so many people die early
in my friends and family that | don't feel. Yeah, | don’t think in terms of retirement, my

philosophy is to live the life that | want to live and provide for my family this year and

33:20

Wonderful. Wonderful. That's absolute, that's perfect. You provide for, you know, we can

provide or you can plan for the future. But you have to live in the present. Mm hmm. All
JO

JO

JO

JO

right now. Sorry, go ahead. No, that's fine. You're in the right track.

33:40

My challenge is that a lot of the work that | feel that I'm doing now is about the future. You
know, it's about building something like say, for example, in real estate investing. It's a
long term game, you know, so the actions | take in the next five years are the benefits

come in then in the 1020 year horizon? And

33:59

that's all that's true. But assets at this point, assuming that everything that you have, that
you that you have, you have to put a value on and say what's the value today? And what
what made the value be in the future. So as long as you know where what the value is,
then we put that in, if it doesn't meet your needs with the value at that point, salad, we're
changing. So you keep you keep a handle on everything that you have in your life and in
the portfolio and say, What can | am | on the right track? Can | can | go forward? Can | go
forward? Or what? Some of the income that you have should be passive income, some of
which would you you're just collecting interest or returns rents from properties. Others
may be active, where are you? It's your your efforts that make it work, and in which case
you have to look at them differently. That's an evaluation but you're certainly on the right

track.

34:51

Yeah, thank you. Um, one of my other you know, things | think about is that as soon as like,
| have various stages of goals. So | have, you know, providing for myself and my family.
And then | have my philanthropic ventures, which happened. You got it. But they they're
they're ever expanding. You know, as soon as | think of Well, I'd like to save, you know, you

know,

35:16

that | understand you're certainly you're on the right track. And the main thing is that I'm
saying is, if you have if you can fit, if you know where you are today, then you can adjust
later on as changes take place over a period of time. Right? Yeah, so | just boil it down.
Now, having done this on a standard basis, for all these years, | now I'm in a situation

where I've made a lot of investments that are good, a lot of passive, I've made a lot of
JO

JO

In order to protect the asset, you have to you have to have a new entity take over the
management. In order to do that we need the books in the records and records involved
and the bank accounts. And to find out exactly how much is going to be owed to him.
They induce the inducement to him is the those now he’s going to get paid. He thinks he's
going to get paid. He will get paid, but not necessarily the way he had in mind, which is
fine. And that's how you're going to protect him and you got to protect his wife and keep
his wife out of it. Yeah, the papers that you have in are not not with his wife or with him.
You don't want to deal with his wife. Yeah, not at all. No. That's all you have no
relationship with her. You don't want to start one. Because he's optimization. He’s gonna
look at it entirely differently. You don't want to learn what am i concerns when you and
you may be able to look at this from a legal perspective, but one of one of my concerns
was that he would sign her knowing that look, I'm gonna be going in whatever, a month or
two, hey, guess what we're gonna worry about that. If it happens, that shouldn't be a
concern, right now. Keep it where it is. Don't Don't think of what they don't let's not talk
theoretically. Okay, if he did it, we can talk again. But until that time is a theoretical, don't
worry about what may happen are not going to happen. At this, if you do this, the main
thing is, is to get somehow in entities that you trust a new entity could be totally
independent, though you could hire him at that point, say fine without me putting in a
new goal, a new group or a new person, but they have to have the right the books, the
records and the bank accounts. So that we can figure out how much money is duty You
got it. Okay, he'll do that. Okay. Okay, that works like a George. You're welcome. What's

next?

12:21

Okay, well, for the folks on the call. Of course, this is a real live situation. And as always, no
one's been asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement. But we do ask that you keep items
like this. And in strict confidence, because you know, it is a real life situation. That is

absolutely. So thank you, everyone, for please respecting that.

12:38

That for everyone else. It's it's a, it's a lesson in a business transaction, which they are not
directly involved, but it is the things that they can learn from that is to how to protect
themselves, should they have a similar transaction or situation in their business

operations?
JO

JO

JO

government is arguing that Huawei is too close to the Chinese government. And | can
personally see that I've actually visited Huawei headquarters in Shinzo de Jing and seeing
how they operate. It's it's a fascinating, fascinating culture that we don't have time to get
into today. But they currently are relying on about $11 billion worth of products sourced
from the US has components in their systems. Yeah. And, and that's what feeds their $107
billion in revenue on an annual basis. So if this ban sticks, the US government has
effectively shut down Huawei. Now it’s a it's a pawn in the larger trade dispute that's
going on between the two countries. So it's not just about balance of trade. It's starting to
take on elements of national security and intellectual property and so on. It's fascinating

from an from a negotiation perspective, what do you Okay,

16:31

so how do you how does it fit into you and the people that are on the phone? He's

basically the data. It's a nice intellectual conversation. Okay.

16:39

So in this particular instance, he's, he's literally pushing the other side, right to the edge of
the cliff.

16:46

Good, good. Okay. There's nothing wrong with that. We just got to leverage. And the other
side of that point, don't use the back down, oh, they lose the numbers, you're in his favor.
So why not? Why do you need them? Interesting? No, no, on the whole, the whole concept
or everything that's going on now with what we call, you call a trade war. That's what the
basically the media seems to call it or what is it’s a trade war. This is not a trade war, this
is correcting an imbalance in trade practices. And when you have a current when when
you have an imbalance you go to correct. So the way you corrected if you put more tariffs
on Chinese goods on the Chinese buying American goods than the Americans buying
Chinese goods, the Chinese are going to give in whoever is Apple is going to end up on the
shorter end of the stick. So you got to all leverage those the negotiation on each
individual item. So it's this is this is gonna work out. This is there's no doubt in my mind,
because he's absolutely right. At that point, China has lived up to the balance of trade is
in favor of China. And it shouldn't be. You can't get United States goods into China, but
you get Chinese goods into the United States. | bought them So why aren't they? Why are
they subject to a tariff. In southern Chile, the cost of doing business in the United States

for Chinese companies is great is higher than it is now. Ultimately, the price will be paid by
JO

malware company, or for some parties that are involved that you can reach out if you
want the books in the records and the bank account, so that you can not turn it over and
protect his interest and protect his wife's interest. That’s what | was having with him
having control of the bank accounts down there for each for each property at that
control. Is he the only one who signs he would have been the he would have opened up
those accounts? Yes, that's why I'm a signer on the loan, but he would not assign no
button nobody else can sign on the bank accounts. | can’t believe that, that nobody else
has the right to sign checks. | would have to look into that. | mean, | because, okay, well, if
somebody at this point, what you're saying is, | think if you basically would speak speak to
him, understand where your problem is, we want to keep we want to protect your interest
in the company, and we're protecting all the others. So we need to make contingencies as
to what happens when you're no longer here and you're no longer able to perform your
functions. So we want somebody else to be there signatories, the signatories on the on the
bank accounts. And whatever else it is to to get involved. We want to want to get get
involved and get you off the mortgage or off the loan. And we want to get you paid we
why we would want to buy you out and pay you what you're sharing worth. But in order to
do that you have to help us take an orderly transition to take over the company to take
over and do the management. | don't think he’s going to object. George today. Should the
indemnity have any carve outs for fraud or anything like that guy, don't get this point get
Don't get so technical. Okay. Don't get the indemnity for to protect me, you just got to
indemnify but first, in order to do it, you got to run the company, you got to get the
company involved. You got to get the books in the records. That's the most important for
the books, books, the records and control of the bank accounts. That's the key, the rest of
it becomes secondary, say, Fine, I'm going to get you off the loans. I'm going to get you all
this I'm going to get to the part of the money representing your interest. That's the
inducement. | don't see he's going to object to it. So you want to do that you have to you
have to turn over the control. | don't think | can see why you would object. So you're going
to indemnify the guarantor of the loan, and the bank will and the bank does enough to
know you don't have to go to the bank. Okay. You don't have to go to the bank that's with
you. You say good. Whatever | believe you have on the loan we will indemnify you. If
you're Have a call to pay it. You don't have to go and get him off technically, you'll be off
technically and when he's no longer here, got it, they can't hold them liable when you're
dead.

10:09

Right? So, so the what | would suggest is, it can be done, | don't see that it should be it
should be adversarial, | don't see that any objection, or will be any objection, if you handle
it on a basis. Or they say, on a friendly basis, you want to protect his interest, you want to

get into the maximum amount of money. In order to do that you got to protect the asset.
JO

JO

JO

51:16

Okay. Yeah. Because this is a very good question, which when you say high income
individuals, you're not talking all the time? What are they looking for? Are they looking for
passive income? Are they looking for growth, and once you understand what they're
looking for, then you can address that that need. And it's not, it's not cool, it's not nothing.
In other words, any high income individual is going to be interested in in various types of
investments in different degrees. And then not just one, though, as | said, | want something
that's going to be good and 10 years, but | could lose my shirt. The one that | passive
income | get, | get a nice return 8% a year. And they can do they will basically interested
in some type of diversification. That's what you have to look for, to say, What are you
looking for, in your portfolio, that works something safe, or something's got a bit of risk,
and how much money also so once you understand that, you can figure out how they will
how they're willing to make the investment and split the money up your head, you're
halfway home, that always say, Well, | would put this amount of money in a high risk
situation, this is in a situation which has very little risk, this was just going to be safe. This is
what will happen in two years, this will happen in five years, or 10 years. So once you know
what the appetite is, then you can creat come up with investments, which will fit their
appetite into one of the things you can do understand this, how would the high income
individual though it’s possible to get tax benefits or gift them benefits that would not be
ordinarily available to the average for the average person wouldn't care. For example, the
government permits you to take depreciation on certain buildings or things that you do,
and write it off on an accelerated basis that is of no value really, to somebody who's got
no money. But for a high income investor at that point that would if you created a
situation where they could get the benefit of that is a benefit to them. Because they're in a
high tax bracket. It's not a benefit to somebody low tax bracket. So you can create you
can slant things, tax wise in documentation, to give the benefits, it gives certain benefits
to high to individuals that need those tax, but that can avail themselves of those tax
benefits, where it’s not not necessarily important that somebody is coming in on a low

level.

25,05

So this would be in terms of what he can offer. Correct. But | guess my question is, in terms
of building relationship, like how can you add value to these high net worth individuals

your value by finding out what it is they're looking for?

54:07
JO

JO

on the TV show The Apprentice taught at the law school for over 20 years. married for

over 60 years. Yeah. We're just thrilled to have you with us. Welcome again, George.

01:15

Good. Thank you. Good to be with you. Where are we here? George, thanks for thanks for

joining us on the call.

01:23

Oh, my pleasure. Let's go. What can we do for you? All right. So about a year ago, a
partner of mine have contracted a severe health problem, and he got stage four cancer,
and we own some multifamily properties together. And so he owns 100%, of his property
management company. And we partnered on some deals on the front end, our deals,
most of our deals were set up, he was a 12, and a half percent tick owner, I'm a 12 and a
half percent tick owner, then there's the investors own 75% of the asset. They bring 100,
they bring the investor bring 100% of the cash, they own 75% of the asset. In the past
year, since he's been sick, the properties have just been mismanaged. And and the internal
problems in the company due to a lack of leadership. The problem is, well, we need a
management change, and we need some capital, his his version of let's fix it, his wallet,
just dump a bunch of money into it, and we'll we'll figure it out, we'll make it go away. Well,
we'll fix the problem. That's not the answer. Okay, that's his solution, not yours. | know
and, and | believe he has an acute sense of, of chemo brand, that they fried him, they've
they've, they mess them up. And so I'm not confident in his ability to make sound business
decisions. So here's the problem that the current operating agreement links the
management of the portfolio and the ownership together. And then the agreement says,
in order to make a management change, the management partner must be borne out at
fair market value and must be taken off the bank loan. So in some of these things have
been some of these properties have been, you know, they slid into government, they've
slid they've, they've become a problem, they become a liability. And | believe new
management is required to fix the issue and restore the value of the portfolio. And | think
we could do it. And, but still, I'm sort of held in a sort of deadlock. And then now Now,
because of his health issues, and his and his stress levels, their marriages is kind of in
shambles. And, and the wife is and she’s gonna leave. And of course, now she's in the
picture. She She believes that is that her husband built this 100 million dollar company,
and she’s competing for what's hers. My | guess my question is, how do we get him off the
loan number one without trigger and without having? | mean, that's easy. That's that
part's easy. You don't have to get him off the loan. Just indemnify him for any liability in

the event it arises. Okay. And then the other question as that can catch him off the line,
JO

JO

JO

JO

JO

22:10

Not the hardest thing. So So that leads me into the second part of my question is, we're
actually, for our internally managed properties. We're in the middle of a strategy shift.
Currently, all of our properties have a manager on site that works 4550 hours a week,
interfaces with the customers recently, there's been some new technology released that
allows for unmanned facilities, almost 100% to get your man hours from 45 a week on site

to 10 hours a month. Good. | haven't resolved like not doing everything right. Well,

22:46

so my question is, | haven't fully built out and implemented those systems, and there's still
some glitches in it, it would seem for me to go and hire new people to take over these two

new properties is somewhat of a band aid to Amman.

23:01

It is a band aid, but it's a solution of this 100 roll with the band aid is a temporary solution,
the band, the temporary slew the band aid type, this one, it may work out that you may
have a manager that you love, and it works out fine. And you decide to make it a long
term arrangement, on the other hand, is just a fill in until you figure out how to work it out
differently. With a home office or, or some other facility, which is more in your control than
an independent party. It's a question in question at a time, but do it okay, you know, use
the band aid. Gotcha. So

23:34

if I'm hearing you write your advice would be do what we're doing now until the long term

play is adaline here and then implement that.

23:41

Yeah, but that's it, yes. And understand that this one of the important elements in any
business especially today is to take advantage of existing or new technology, which which
makes it easier or reduce the exposure, reduce the exposure that point so now | can easily
see that how it was, when somebody goes into one of your things. You may not need
somebody there, you can have somebody that this way away using a computer. Exactly,
yeah, a form of right on a computer, using the Facebook, you know, screen time where

they have so that you don't use you sign in here. It's just what you get. And you got it. You
JO

JO

got the connection, but it’s through the computer, not necessarily person to person. Right,
right. Where I'm actually especially in the nature of your business, because it's not
something which is, which is personally intense attempting. It happens very time. So
somebody comes into your place and wants access to their storage. That's one Do you
need a man full time to waste with them? No, you don't know you're on the right track at
that point that this could easily be computerized, so that it would be very, very cost
effective. Good, and something that you can control easily. And it doesn't right at the
same location. Yeah, yeah. And so it’s somewhat of a transition point. | was wondering
even though I'm not fully all the systems laid out yet, should |? Should | be bad at those
systems? Or should | get this one? No, that's just what main thing is, solve the immediate
problem with the band aid, and then figure out some a permanent arrangement, and how
it works out. And you can try it to see is it better than having somebody on the site to
have them remote? Or is it better not? Which is, it’s a cost factor? Right? And it depends, a
cost factor depends on the location depends on location, who's going to Who do you
want to take over and do it and then what's involved in time and hours and expense? And
maybe hospitals, whatever you do, you give them whatever benefits that you give them.
So it says something to make sure it's cost effective, but you're under | think you're on the
right track, the more that you can bring it into one, one location, not necessarily on site. It
makes sense. Yes, yes. You know, it’s, | can’t tell you that right, | can tell you this one in our
law office, at that | had many people working that never came into the office. But it was
all done computer wise. So | wish they could stay at home with the kids. But nevertheless,
do the work. And then send me the product. Did you find people were more productive or
less productive remote, people got to be more productive, if they have the time knows you
can get the right people. And then they found out that the cost isn't going to be cheaper
because they like whoever it is. They you're now they don't have to fit into your timeframe
you're fitting into their timeframe. So it's not to say you don't have to have it, you don't
have to come in at nine o'clock and leave his leave at five at this. Here’s the work that has
to be done. | need this contract from you for that date, and then send the send it to me,
and I'll buy the computer. I'll look it over and I'll edit it. So you never you never you really
don't have the need that needed face to face arrangement. It does work. Perfect. Well,

thank you so much. | appreciate that. You're welcome. Okay, what's next?

27:09

Okay, what's next? Since we started to talk a little bit about work life balance. Why don't

we go to Cara Lee colada? Cara Lee, are you there?

27:18
Ollee

PC-May-2019-Mastermind-Call-with-
George-Ross

q@ Thu,9/94:00PM @ 56:44
SUMMARY KEYWORDS

question, property, point, building, money, problem, investors, george, management, huawei,

people, victor, buy, partner, business, band aid, good, liability, understand, portfolio

SPEAKERS

Robert

Robert 00:00
Hey syndication mentoring club, it's time for another edition of the monthly George Ross

mastermind.

00:07

JO

Me, George. Good evening. How are you? I'm well yourself. Very good. Thanks. How was
your holiday? dog was really good that so it's good to get away for a while but it’s great to
come back to the United States. I'll tell you that different culture. You have different
cultures different times, but it’s good to get away. But you know, it’s it’s fine to come back

and see what's what's going on in the United States and around the world. We've got,

00:36

JO

we'll talk a little bit about the news. Normally, we start these sessions with a question from
the news and we'll we'll do that but Dave Zook has a time commitment tonight. So we're
gonna put him first to ask his question. Right. Okay. So welcome, everyone. Welcome to
our monthly mastermind call with George Ross. Of course, George worked for Mr. Trump

for close to 37 years out of the last number of years. And as his right hand man, a co star
JO

JO

JO

JO

money, I've got a good estate and having provided for my children for my grandchildren.
And now it turns out that is, is what is my income, here's my expenses. And you know,
what the, the income is far in excess, the expenses. So what do you do? | give it to charity?
Because | don't need it, and my children don't need it. So but you understand, we're
talking about a big difference. I'm 90, and you're 40. So it's a long spread. Yeah. But you're
on the right track. And | commend you for it, because most people, they just say, | got to
make it, | gotta make it | make it without looking at what Where do | stop? Or | don't feel
right about it. Am | protected? And so you're looking at it in the right way. | commend you
for that. Most people don't do that. Thank you. It’s true. When you end up with charities,
or whatever, it's one of the philanthropic there's a there's a certain gratification that you
get from that, that you don't get from more. In other words, my philosophy for whatever
it's worth is, | would like to think later on that because of these these calls and all the
people that I've coached or advised and luxuries or what have you, the world is a better

place because | was in it. That's my feeling.

36:59

| absolutely being the beneficiary of this call. And Victor, you know, in his role in our in our

real estate investment. | am so grateful. And it's it's such a blessing. | really honor both of

37:15

you feel glad you feel that way. And Victor is certainly commended if he's if he’s got you
there that thinking that's great. Yeah. Good luck with your lifestyle. Victor, what else we
got next?

37:26

Okay, next. All right. Lo you're on the line? Yes, sir. Okay, go ahead. Oh, you asked the
question. I'm sorry, you're changing up on me? Oh, I'm fine whacky, it doesn’t matter. No,
it's fine. Hey, George, how's it going? I'm doing good. How are you doing? I'm doing well.

What can | do for you.

37:49

So we have a project in South Louisiana that we're about to start construction on. And
we're building an assisted living and dementia care facility. And the buildings are

separate. So the Dementia Care portion will have a separate license, separate address,
JO

JO

JO

12:56

Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. The coupling together, the management, the ownership is a
dangerous thing. And | know we've talked about it before on the call Georgia numerous

times. And fortunately,

13:08

luckily, but it is and you have to, you have to somehow separate it. And you have to
provide that what happens if there has to be a what if you can't get along with the
management, you take back the management, but not necessarily the interest in the
property? So there has to be documentation just for how your is the manager? What do
you do? Like it was an independent manager. So you have to have that totally
independent manager here, your obligations, he is what you get paid. He is what you do.
And and here's what happens. If it doesn't work out, we can fire you in his way to get one
of the one of the upsides and | totally agree, | totally agree there. There's, you know, that's
a, that's a sticky situation when you're in in this when you're in what I'm in now, but what?
I've tried it before and it works. | mean, it seems like it really works well. You know, things
don't go bad. Like and it works well, because the manager has skin in the game. | mean,
you know, absolutely. That was that was one of the upsides. But now now it gets sticky
when, you know, when it goes sour like this, no, it gets sticky. And the lesson to be learned
from this particular transaction and many other transactions is you have to have your
documentation with partners or management, what have you, you must have a divorce
provision, which you can live with in the document. And you have to have that from the
beginning. Because that's when everything is fine. Yeah, we're going to be good. We're
going to be partners, it's going to work out well. But once when, when stuff starts to get
bad, then you then they started the argument. Once you have the document and you
have it initially when you first start, then there's no problem. But that's that's important.
Very often you say Don't worry that but we'll work it out. Don’t worry. You're working out
at the beginning when there's nothing on that. table. When there's no money on the table,
it's easy to work out good or going wrong later on. If you don't work it out the guys Well,
hey, | put in more than that I’m entitled to more than my share. | don't care what the pain
is. And you end up with some type of a dispute, which at best is is unfriendly, which at
worst as litigation? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Next. Thank you.

15:24

All right. Thank you, Dave. So this week, George, the administration instituted a ban on us

technology and being sold to China's Huawei Corporation. The, you know, the, the
JO

JO

JO

Yes, |am. Thank you, Victor. Yeah, can you hear me? Okay? Yes, | certainly can car.
Excellent. Thank you. I'm very pleased to be on the call with you today already learned a
lot. Thanks. So |am in my mid 40s. I'm a multi passionate entrepreneur with a variety of

different ventures. And I'm a big believer in the 8020 rule that you know, 20% of

27:43

believers believer, it definitely stopped. That's a fact. That's totally a believer. That's that's
actually that's true. Right? infallible? Okay. Okay.

27:53

Yes. It’s a fact about success is 80% psychology and 20% mechanics? So my question is
related to the the psychology piece. And it’s a two part question really. One is, is
personally for yourself, and then also what advice you might have for us. So the first part
is looking back over your own life. Do you have any regrets about the amount of time that

you spent on business versus other important areas of life?

28:22

Well, no, that’s that's a good question. But before | get to that question, let's, let's clear up
the 8020. The 8020, it says that 20% of 10% of what you do, will give you 80% of the
money or the reward you're looking for. That's the 8020 rule. So you concentrate on the
20%, you'll get 80% benefit. Don't constants, don't try to get back the 80% or go in that
because it’s it's not. It's not productive enough. That's the 8020. Okay, so | don't know
what it’s got nothing to relate with 20% of your time, or 80% of your time. It’s not a time
factor. So we got it. | hope you got that clear. It’s not a time factor. But getting to your
question, it's a very good question. And | have found that or they're not found, | have to
go back to my own lifestyle. And as | found out that there is more to life than just making
a pot full of money, or working to make a pot full of money. And if your life has a balance
the balances on one side you've got income and wealth or call it what you like or
whatever you need to sustain the life style that you want or you think you want that's part
of it. How much do you need and how do you get there. The second part is family, friends,
church, charity, whatever it is, now that you're part of the world and your position in New
York. What you If you do in the world, as distinct from what you're doing business, and if
you can get a balance between those two, you will be very happy. If you can't get a
balance between those two, then you have to give up, you have to straighten out,
whichever one is out of balance. So | always fight | have made it to reap mated a

arrangement or as far as myself was concerned, was, | would never work, those wouldn't
JO

JO

JO

JO

the whoever picks whoever has the goods. Either he passes the price off to the consumer,
or at that point just doesn’t buy the goods. But that's normal trade. What do you do at
that point, if you if you you're buying a product from a supplier and the supplier raises the
price, and you need to supply, either you pay the price, or you figure out another way to
get the product, what stopped the business is normal, normal trade. It's just on an
immense scale and been going on for years. And you're also dealing with two different
cultures. Of course, which makes a big difference. The probably one of the problems you

have here is the Chinese at this point, don't want to lose space blue space,

19:01

which is a very important part of that negotiating culture for sure. A

19:03

very important part of that negotiating culture. But in this in figuring out this point, Trump
is absolutely on the right track. Absolutely on the right track, and it will it will work out it's
just a question of time, Chinese are going to have to come back and figure out some way
to make it easier and make it and try to save some face and he'll go long so that
negotiates a it’s not so tough, but the end result is is going to Trump is going to win. Have
two numbers are on there on the on our side.

19:32

Does the amount of US Treasuries that China holds? Is that a card that they're going to
do? What are they going to foreclose? Maybe not not purchased them again?

19:42

So what to get somebody else to purchase? In other words, isn't there a message there?
They hold all these treasuries. Do they think the government that the United States has
got a bad economy? If they did, why would they buy the paper? And that's not a problem.
| mean, they can't foreclose. Okay. Again, do what they've they're not doing they got no
So bonds, they can be replaced maybe not by Chinese. But meanwhile, it's a good
investment for somebody, especially now with the economy booming. Any paper that the
United States is issuing is fine. It looks good. But we can solve the world’s problems. But
this is a intellectual. This is a great, this is fine discussion, but let's get down to the facts

that are more important for the people on the line. Right. Um,
JO

he should be technically on on the line with the bank. But meanwhile, he doesn’t have to
worry as long as you're the You are the partners assigning the guarantee he won't be or
OPR. Question is, he was the asset manager and he was also the property manager. So he
got he kept all the he kept all the books and records and the fact that he won't turn them
over. No. Have you tried? | haven't tried from a law there any agreements? Are there any
agreements between the entity which owns the property and the management? Yes.
There's a separate agreement, | believe so that was a cotenant agreement. And it clearly
spells out the you know what needs to happen if we fire him as the manager and don't
feel sorry for him as we farm as a manager. Your fire is a manager farm as the manager
you take you indemnify him against the loss against the loan, the bank loan, which takes
care of that, that element. Now the question is he wants to get paid out at fair market
value. That's the last item, | assume. It says that it’s got to be an appraised value and it's
got great appraised value is fine. appraised value, fair market value is fine. | will do that
you say good, which we're going to do get the appraised value, fair market value, but
you're not going to pay them all in cash upfront. So he's got to have got over a period of
time to let the property resettle. Now, if he doesn't do it, so what? Once you try to get
books in the records, you do the management, then then there's all we're doing is you got
to dispute it, if you keep his wife out of it, how do you get access to the books and records?

He'll give it to you? And the bank accounts? If he if

05:59

he should, he should turn them all over. And you shouldn't have to have a lawsuit for him
to turn over? In other words, now if in fact, you you set up an entity who's going to do the
management? Who's going to do the management a new entity, right? Yeah. Okay, fine.
So then he then the new entity, you tell him to turn over all the books and records to the
new entity? Why should he object and the entity as a new entity has the books and
records everything, you need to run the property. And | think | rejected that point. And
that's how you do when you do that, and you get all the information and you say, Good,
and we're gonna pay you out, I'm gonna buy you out. You're not gonna use it. That's what
you tell him. Although you we bought, we all know, you're not going to pay all cash,
because you need an appraised value. When you get the appraised value, you can figure
out what to do with it. Meanwhile, you've really you've gotten back to control of the
property, he won't object to that. One of the one of the things, you know, with him being
terminally ill, and his wife, his wife, and Florence, them, one of the one of the things that |
worry about is that he doesn't at this point, have too much to lose. And there's nothing
really there's nothing he does have to lose at that point. He’s got an asset. So he's got to
he's got to protect the asset. If he doesn't, I'm not, I'm not suggesting | don't think he
wants to go through a lawsuit when he’s in his position. And what he asked the lawyer

you're asking is to replace the management. That's all you're asking. So you've got a new
JO

JO

JO

JO

45:21

Exactly. including us who happened to own the property long before even that. Okay. Is

this a frivolous lawsuit?

45:30

No, just lawsuit adapalene. But | wouldn't worry about at this point, just, you know, you
have, you will have no potential liability. So you just answer whatever claim that they have
and just say you object to all everything that they raise, you have no liability, and you
don't won't happen. But this is standard practice it is they will sue everybody in sight,
hoping somebody will come forward and pay for the dillo get together and give them get
insurance company back their money. And insurance company is intending to get back all
their money anyway. Right. So the case conferences? No, no, when it gets to trial, Okay, at
this point, if it was you'll never get to trial. The guy who's liable is the one who built it. Yes.
Not you. Correct. So there’s no liability. So it was no purpose. If there's a trial at that point
that show up if they want to get to it, yes. But to get us dismissed against you in these just
because it’s a claim that you're not a liability is a waste of money, although it'll probably
be the fact that you pull your winnings, but it’s a waste of legal time, and at least a
business. Okay, that didn't happen. So we can we can start. This is how the lawyers make
the money. Sure, sure. So everybody, that's all for more money than it's worth. And hope
that the time when you settle it, it turns out to be to write them out. Okay, good advice.

Okay. You're welcome.

46:51

Okay, next. We have Brad, Brad, are you on the line? press star six to unmute.

46:59

Can you hear me, Victor? Yes, | can hear you. Hey, George, how are you? Thanks for Brad.
Yeah, real quick. We've been flipping houses in Southern Maryland and DC single family
residence for quite some time. And we realized that this passes, it's not going to be
scalable. So we want to get into the apartment investments, go for the, you know,
potential, the gap test for residents, residual income. So we recognize that we're going to
need, you know, larger equity investments for the apartment projects. Right. And in your
opinion, should we continue to build our, from our modest investors that we have now? Or
should we work on new relationships? That was investors that have, you know, that have

done multifamily apartments? Okay, that's very good. Very good question. And the and a
JO

very good. I've seen this happen many times I've been involved with have made a deal
with your investors that exists now. Okay, it’s easy. If an investor has vested with you, and
they're satisfied that you're honorable and the handle and it's it worked out, they trust
you, then it doesn’t make any difference, whether you're not talking about flipping one
family houses, or you're talking about multiple, developed multiple residential properties
or something, that they trust you as an individual. Now, also with that, when you have
when you start to produce, and you start to show results on the new projects that you
have, they will be your best sookesman to get you other investors. | see. Okay, so it works
that way, though. The parallel or not a parallel a situation that | had investors in
mortgages, those | would place mortgages on properties, which were, which were very
secure pay to high rate of interest. They were and | had investors that would invest in
these mortgages, because of the fact that it had a high rate of interest. Then | decided
that | was going to go in and buy radio stations. And | set up a radio company and | took
the investors that we're in the mortgage end of it. And | said, how would you like to be a
stockholder in a radio and radio company, and you buy some stock and then make a loan
and we'll work it out. And you now have a part of a broadcasting complex? | didn't have
any problem. Because they trusted me. They said, Well, if he knows mortgages, he knows
radio and | knew nothing very, but they trust me. That's the same situation as you have
here. And it was very successful. And they were anyone who did the investment turned out
gangbusters. Because the radio CB radio things turned out to be great. I'll be it's been 20
years they made made a lot of money. But it wasn't immediate income. But the transition
was the thing that counts. And that's your base. You can have the transition. Great. Okay.
Thanks very much for no you You never know also is that what happens is the investors
that you have may be involved with a certain amount of money now on one family
houses, but if it goes to be larger and they have the money, they'll say it, they'll make the
transition. They don't say, Well, | only buy something that's $20,000. If they have 50, or
100, to invest, and the 20 becomes an arbitrary limit, do you understand what I’m saying?
Yes, absolutely. That's it. They'll not say, Hey, I'm successful, I'm successful. He is successful
in you in building something for me. And he was successful at that level of 20,000. Why
should | not feel that he will be successful level of 100,000? So you bet they have their
faith in you, they'll back. Okay, great. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Okay, but
next. We've got Robin, are you on the line? Yes. Okay, it's just Robin. Yeah. Okay, good. |

can hear you barely.

51:01

So the question | have is, in terms of raising capital, for syndicating large real estate deals,
how can you add value to high net worth individuals? Like if we can think of specific

examples early in your career that helped you raise capital? That would be great.
JO

JO

JO

JO

the cost that don't build it. You can't you're not going to win it. Those you're not going to
win and say it's not a hospital that this board does. They're going to they're going to do
what they think is appropriate now, for the people who are that either you build a building
that way or you don't according to the code and add to the cost that you hopefully you
raise, you can recover the cost in the in the charges that you make to the people use it.
You can't fight City Hall. Don’t try. Okay. Okay. What's next? | can’t read that one. You
know, it’s just, you're not going to win it. Anytime you expect the politicians or the people
in control to make an intelligent decision. You are making a mistake. They don't want to
make intelligence only wise they don't want to make waves. They don't want to be
criticized. Why didn't you do this? Why didn't you do that? They don't want to do that. It’s
easy to say good. It's got to be a fire rated window or doors or when it's easy to over over
classify the rabbit to under classify. They don't want to be responsible there all of a

sudden is a fire and so they could have protected they could have had something

44:18

there just to keep their boss off the front page of the newspaper.

44:21

You got it and not not not have somebody pointed them Why didn't you do this? That's
what it is. What's next. Okay.

44:30

Next, this one this one’s actually from from my business. And this hopefully we can deal
with fairly quickly. | own a share in a company. We built a an apartment building. This was
in Philadelphia, and we own two additional parcels of land on the same block. This city
rezone them we said we don't want to build under the new zoning. So we sold them and
the new buyer then built an apartment building he managed to get it rezoned and right
have you in the process of constructing the building. They damaged a neighbor's home.
Okay, neighbor filed an insurance claim which was paid. And now the insurance claim? |
don't know. Okay. | don't know. Now the insurance company subrogated. And they're filing

a lawsuit to recover their damages, and they've

45:17

probably suing everybody and everybody in sight.
