wy Alex PetTKOS 2/:42

Yeah, yeah interesting and that and that is what | want and | think that that’s what they want as well because they
don't want to have to get dirty with the money and are they one of them is one of the

© Mauricio 27:55

issues like as soon as you have one non accredited investor, the level of disclosures that you are now required to
provide them is the same level as you do as if you were doing a mini registration or you know, like a reggae or
something it’s just it's a complete registry, it’s all the disclosures, all the financial disclosures it's just that’s what
brings the cost of you know, if you had said look they're they're both accredited then | would probably say yeah, it's a
securities offering you know, don't don't bother with a ppm | mean, again, you you know, the author's name that
they're gonna do anything but do do it's a securities offering file a form D with you know, wherever the state that

they're in and call it a day but when you have a non accredited investor, you're required to give them full blown,
which | know sounds like a complete waste but it is what it is.

© Alex Petkas 28:38

Interesting. Yeah. But it's good to know that that allows Caesar that flexible,

© Mauricio 28:43

loving you do it | mean, you can tax them however you want, you can tax him as a partnership, you can tax him as a
S corp, you could tax him as a C Corp. If it’s just you, it could be a disregarded entity. | mean, they're so flexible. And
you know, with the management arrangement, you have all the control or limited control you can literally | don't
know what limitations | have in an LLC maybe if you're starting a company to try to get stock options to employees

that might not be the right structure, but otherwise it's so flexible. It's no surprise that limited partnerships and now
LLC are by far the most common especially with real estate.

® Alex Petkas 29:20

Yeah, well this is really helpful and and you know, hadn't really this is kind of one of my questions. Is this a security in
some way and | for me, I'm trying to use this as an opportunity to get ready for when | am ready to do a syndication
because the operators these are ELLs are looking to expand their portfolio of properties they want to operate, they're
looking for somebody to help them raise capital. So I’m thinking, you know, I'm not necessarily thinking of raising
more capital from the family members, but using this vehicle going forward, to maybe participate in you know, I’m
not trying to kind of foresee a few years into the future with with this deal. So yeah,

© Mauricio 30:00

| was | was gonna suggest, you know, you know, again with family members again, it’s not technically probably so I'm
not you know you in theory you could do sort of just Hey just Mom, dad lend me money, right? I'll give you a return
and you kind of do like a promissory note, but but you're really trying to put together a model that you want to then
scale and use in the future, then, you know, maybe it’s just, you know, Russ, you jump in here, but maybe it’s just doing
business, it's a learning thing. You you set it up right the first time along, and then you've got a model that that
questions and then it's either going to be a if it’s not a securities lawyer, obviously, I'm a securities lawyer, so it's not
me. It's gonna be a business lawyer. Which | can then obviously point you in the right direction.

Gs) Alex Petkas 50:23

Okay? Thanks. Okay, call. Okay, Billy, anything

A 50:28

and nothing else for me, Mauricio, we'll be in touch this week or next week, so

© Russ 50:32

Okay, all right. It's late night you guys. Get your beauty sleep. All right, Mauricio, thanks for your contribution,

everybody. If you've got any questions or comments about anything that came up, throw it down in the forum, put it
in, ask the mentors and we'll just take it up on the next episode. Thanks.

® Alex Petkas 50:49

Thanks, guys. Fantastic.

A, 50:50

Okay. Thank you. Bye bye.
right? Again, ratio, correct me if I'm talking about a school, but just the flexibility, the flipside of the flexibility, not the
flip side, but it the benefit of the flexibility is you have the opportunity to be very creative in in in structuring a deal in
such a way that it can meet the unique needs of the people that you have at the party.

© Mauricio 42:22

Yeah, that's the beauty of it. It's just the flexibility you can | always say that, | mean, you can pretty much do anything
you want. | mean, within a couple of things. You can like paying people referral fees, and you know, paying people to
raise money for you and, and advertising when you're not supposed to. But other than that, like | told Alex Alexander,
like just put on a piece of paper, like what is it that you're trying to accomplish? And then let the attorney ask you the
questions that you asked to get clarity and then have them go do the legal work. You know, again, your job is not to
be the technician that the lawyers responsibility, your job is to provide them with the vision have enough knowledge
to kind of have a good conversation. But then here Mr. Attorney, Mrs. Attorney, this is what | want to do. Please help
me get there.

© Russ 43:03

Yep. Okay, so Mauricio, anything you think everybody needs to know about the state of the union in terms of legal
you see anybody making a grievous mistakes in this market? Has anything changed? as we're going through the
current climate, you see anything brewing on the horizon? People should be aware of, or maybe a tip that were you
seeing somebody do something just absolutely brilliant, that you think people should? The one thing

© Mauricio 43:28

that I'm probably gonna do some stuff to, you know, | don’t know if you want to tease it a little bit, Russ, or I'm
probably going to do a video about it this week. But you know, the whole you know, the big thing is really the last
couple of weeks, we got an update on the accredited investor definitions, which | got a lot of questions about. And |
can give you a quick 32nd version. And my thoughts on that. And then we'll do I'm certainly gonna do and | think
Russ, you and | talked about maybe doing something a little bit more robust. But yeah, the SEC came out a couple of
weeks ago, well, actually, they came with this. | actually posted this on social media in December of last year,
because they usually it's a process so they come up with proposals and then kind of like, proposed rules, final rules. |
mean, there's all these these timelines where people have an opportunity to actually get in and make comments and
made requests. And so that's called SOG.

© Russ 44:16

Government. Yeah,

© Mauricio 44:18

but the gist is this the maybe the punch line so the SEC came out about two maybe three weeks ago with updated
definitions of accredited investors we all know as it stands right now, and it still stands right now because this isn’t
taken effect until 60 days from that that ruling but accreditation in general was based on either network or or
income, right? It’s a million dollars in net worth excluding a personal residence or it's $200,000 a year in the last
couple of years with a reasonable expectation of earning it this year. And there’s always been this debate is like well,
is that really the right standard? You know, it’s just you know, just because you you make a lot of money. You certainly
have a lot of people who make a lot of money that are complete morons and

Russ 44:57
that well $200,000 used to be a lot of money. That's right, that's right.

Mauricio 45:01

Or there's a lot of people that don't make a lot of money and are smarter than all of us combined. And so the SEC
finally came out with a couple of updates people are getting a little bit excited about about it. And let me just tell
you what they are. And then I'll give you my thoughts. The first one is the big one really is they're opening the door to
allow somebody to become a credit investor via some sort of certification. Right so so you know, some kind of a
licensing requirement or some say you go to some get some certification that's obviously approved by the SEC. So
you go take, we don't even know what that looks like. And that's the big deal. But you know, you go take it, you
probably

Russ 45:37

swear allegiance to Wall Street and Wall Street principles

Mauricio 45:40

that right, so it's it's some professional designate, whether it's a weekend that you do, whether it’s a six month
program, whether it's a two hour course, we have no idea, but the idea is you go through this training, and at the
conclusion, as a trainee, you get a professional certification designation that you know enough that you are

essentially an accredited investor, you've got enough knowledge and expertise Now to do that. The

Russ 46:02

just like real estate agent licensing, right? Yeah. get licensed in real estate man, they sure know what they're doing.

Mauricio 46:13
Right now, the only things that they've come up with that'll kick in here probably another 30 days from now is if you

are essentially an investment advisor, right? If you're a professional investment advisor, meaning you've had a series
seven license, a series 65 license, or a series 82 license, and | just memorize those, | don't know any, any idea what
those really are. But if you have those licenses, then it starting in about a month, you will now be a credit and an
accredited investor, even though you don't have the net worth or income. And the idea and the exciting part is that
we don't know when but sometime and that hopefully in the near future, they'll come out with some clarifications or
some not. Sometimes they'll say, Hey, now we've come up with this program. Here's an institution that we've vetted,
and these guys have a program and if you go through these program, we're going to authorize and certify this
program. So in the future, there's going to be an opportunity for people to become accredited investor through the
And so as we start to store documents, and ceilings, | just want to have that, that security. So

© Russ 11:34

yeah, you're getting you're getting into some operational issues, and also probably some jurisdictional issues because
you're an international guy. And so like one of the most important things and correct me if I'M wrong, Mauricio, but
you know, if you're going to have a legal agreement, there's going to be teeth in it you have to establish the

jurisdiction that that's in and | don't know how does that work Mauricio when you're when you're going cross border

© Mauricio 11:57

| mean it's tough because that's exactly right. | mean, everything | said | should probably preface with it obviously is
here in the US I'm a US Attorney so | don't know you know, one of the important things you got to figure out we had
this issue when | was living in you know, | wouldn't believe is that you know, the contractual rights I'm pretty
comfortable here in the US if | have a contract with somebody and somebody breaches that contract I'm pretty
comfortable that | can go | have a redress option in the courts or an arbitration or something | can get those
contracts in force but if you're in a country you know that doesn't really have really robust legal you know, it's a
young country or they don't really have that that many robust laws and maybe the contract isn't as as solid as you
think Yeah, they violated the contract but we're always we always talk about what we always talk about you know
getting a judgment and collecting but here we're talking about somebody breaching your agreement you having a
legal right but can you get some some remedy there depending on what country they're in? And so let's be realistic |
mean let's say Billy you're in your you're in Spain so I'm just hoping to make this up and let's just say you hire a virtual
assistant or somebody and you know, Slovakia or Slovenia or something and just any other random country and you
have a contract with them and they breach it. | mean, realistically What are you going to do like it What if you have
a non disclosure and they go to their friends and they just you know or they start raising capital in Sylvania | mean,
you know you do have some in my opinion you do have some some limitations actually, you've got to be extra
careful when doing that because what are you going to do go to Slovenia and sue them in Slovenia and Slovenia,
even if it says jurisdiction wise if the jurisdiction is in Spain or in the US from New York or whatever? Let's be realistic
we're talking about an employee or a vendor who's in some some random corner of the world for you it might be
more you're you know, you're in Spain which is obviously a pretty very extremely developed European countries so
maybe they've started it may make sense to at the very least | don't know how the European Union you know, as a
bloc, but maybe at the very least start with having people in that European Union so that if they do breach you've
got some kind of remedy that will be my concern with you.

A 13:54

Okay, yeah, makes sense. And you're touching on the things that | was that that have come across my mind as well
because there are people that are here in Europe, some in Spain, some in other European countries and some in in

even Asian countries. So

© Mauricio 14:08

| mean, what again, | mean, | don't know what you do | mean, honestly, | don't | don't know the answer I'm so I'm
pretty good at issue spotting sometimes. And it just, | just know, | gotta figure it out. | don't necessarily have the

answer. But like, you know, it's like, if you have a VA, and you get somebody in Thailand or in you know, India,
lawyers in the right jurisdictions, and trying to have as much control over that. And inside of that, is also having
mandatory mediation and arbitration, so that you don't have to sue before you've gone through those other things,
which are perhaps easier to do, certainly less expensive to do and private. And it’s really important if you're going to
be a syndicator that you don't have, you know, 20 million lawsuits floating around in the public domain, even if you're
100%, right, it doesn't really matter. It just You look like a, you know, a legal liability machine. And you're probably
not going to want to do that. And the other way, and then the third component is insurance. Right? If you work with
your insurance counsel, and you say these are my business practices against a data breach, will you cover if we
experience a breach and they'll say Yes or no? Or they'll might say, Yes, we will. But if you would do this, or do that, or
eliminate this or eliminate that, we would give you better coverage. Or we would give you cheaper coverage. Some
things, they may completely say, No, we won't cover you and under any circumstances, and then you can get a lot of
free Intel by saying, Well, if you were in my shoes, knowing what you would cover, how would you organize it, and
then they coach you up on how to organize your business in an insurable way. So that there's ways to get answers.
But you need to consider it from the legal perspective, the operational perspective, the insurance perspective, and
then from ratios point pragmatically, what are you really going to do? What do you really | mean, | had my mortgage
company set up, and | had all my loan officers under non compete, they couldn't leave and take any customers or
team with them. And we had somebody who decided they wanted to leave, and they recruited to have two or three
other people, and they all decided to leave, | could have sued them, they were in violation of their agreement. And |
looked at it and | looked at them, and | said, Well, let the best man or woman win, right. And | was just happy to
compete. It was more of the spirit of the agreement was, hey, it was a gentleman's agreement that this is the nature
of our relationship. And you don't get to do this. And if, but if they're going to stab you in the back, they're going to
stab you in the back, you want to make sure that you only interest, people that have a track record of being
trustworthy with the more sensitive things. And that's true in anything, right? You know, if you're faithful and little,
then you can be stored in a little if you're faithful. In a little I'll give you a little bit more. And then when you're steward
of mightor, faithful and much of the steward of much. And that's what this is really all about is that level of
stewardship, who do you trust, and it takes time to build a team that you have a lot of faith in both their ethics and
their competency. You know, in our group we have now it's up to six C’s that we concentrate on. We've talked about
that and other messages, so | won't belabor that. But But anyway, so | think it's a good question. Legal is a
consideration. But as you're finding these things, all kind of operations, insurance, a lot of this back office stuff, kind
of all dovetail but it’s all on the basis of two major pieces of infrastructure, your legal structure, and your accounting
structure. And | would add to that your document control structure. Those three structures are your data, data, data
control, which would be your database and your documents. Okay. All right, thank you very much tossin. On that,
Mauricio, before we switch the subject? No,

 ) Mauricio 22:32

| think we're good. Okay.

© Russ 22:33

So Alex, you're here? Did you come with a question? We didn't get anything submitted upfront?

@® Alex Petkas 22:38

ball, you know, I'm really here to learn from from people doing greater things. And I'm, | mean, | do have a couple of
kind of smaller questions that | could go for it, we're here wouldn't be too boring. So I'm working on a deal that |
think will, I'm hoping will turn into future syndications. It's a residential assisted living portfolio that I'm in escrow on
now in Central Texas. And so |, | actually want to do some kind of | don't know if | want to call it a syndication but I’m

trying to figure it out how the legal structure should work. But it's all in the family. And so I'm basically | don’t know if
that's completed, that's not their possession, that's the your possession. And at the end of the relationship, whether
it's a termination or they leave voluntarily, they must hand over everything, there anything in their files are anything
that they have that technically belongs to the company or you not the not the not the employee or contractor. Rush,
you want to add anything to that.

Russ 08:27

There's a bunch of stuff 1 can add, | have a couple of Lynch interesting color things. One of them is you talk about
anything that somebody creates on your dime belonging to you, you guys, you know, | have a background in the
office supply business going way, way, way back. And the guy that invented the post it note, an engineer did it on
three AMS dime, so they gave him a $50,000 bonus, and it became the greatest selling office product of all time and
made three, you know, hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars. And that's exactly why you do that he had no
right to make a claim that even though it was his invention, he did it well working for them. So you don't know
somebody may come up with some type of a spreadsheet for doing due diligence or some sort of a process. They
may form a relationship and they say, hey, that's my relationship. No, you form that relationship on, on, you know,
working for me. And so that's my relationship and you're precluded from developing a business relationship with that
person for the lockout period, whatever it is a year, two years. And so | think the things that risio said at the top are
important to reiterate that some ratios started with us, you know, we brought him in, really to be our general counsel.
He didn't have a lot of experience in what we were doing, but he knew law and we said, we just need somebody who
knows law to be the quarterback because at the time | was the legal quarterback, and, you know, | was a layman
and | had | think a decent working knowledge and | was conversant. But you know, there's so many things that |
didn't know when | certainly didn't know how to speak lawyer. So | think there's a business opportunity for For
somebody out there that would like to be a virtual General Counsel, | think that one’s a huge business opportunity.
But you want to get to the point where eventually you have a general counsel. In the meantime, it is kind of you. And
you have to understand enough about all the different types of law that you're involved in to know when you need to
bring in specialists. But you don't want to be in that seat very long. Take it for me, because | was in that seat. And it's
just a lot of headache. And you got to deal with a lot of stuff that is important to be dealt with. But if you're trying to
be in marketing mode, and legal and accounting mode, at least, my brain didn’t multitask those two functions,
because it was like, the left side of my brain and my right side of my brain trying to work together and they don't, is it
one or the other? | could do either one, but not both at the same time. So | think there's that, then | Well, | guess,
before we we come off that, Billy, | want to make sure. Do you have any other questions you have specific to that? Or
Alex, since you joined us? Did you have anything you wanted to ask related to this topic? Before we move on to
something else?

@® Alex Petkas 11:06

In particular,

© Russ 11:07

Oo
O)

okay, Billy,

11:09

no, nothing else that | wanted to add her on that. So | mean, | have the | have the idea. And it's really just to be able
to have ideas in terms of what needs to be done certain types of language and who | need to reach out to. To help
because it's really I'm hiring people that are in different countries geographically located and everything's remote.
JO

the phase of recruiting and onboarding a few roles and it would be great to know avenues for the team to explore so
they can get the people in place and feel comfortable that their intellectual property not his words mine the
processes and standard operating procedures that they create stay in house and I'm guessing right along with that
would be things like deals deal sources, lending lending sources, all types of service providers and vendors and
anything that's part of your secret sauce and obviously your investor database anything you want to add to that

before we let me see a riff on that for a bit

02:08

Nope, you've actually added the things that | was gonna add in rust so that is just perfect that he may answer I'm
sure you're gonna answer very soon it may spark Another question | can give you some more context and be like

Russ 02:18

okay, so Maria I'll toss it to you. Yeah, well

Mauricio 02:21

| think | got it good to see you Billy. And you Russell course. Let me pull back a little bit as a reminder just like when
you go see your doctor there are different doctors for different specialties right you've got your general practitioner
that you go when you have you know, some general issues you got the cold the flu whatever but then there are
specialists so if you've got something that has to do with you know, gastro, you go see you gastroc graph
gastroenterologist, you go see a heart specialist, you go see the specialist, that specialist and it’s no difference with
attorneys, attorneys or attorneys are generally either general practice or they know a little bit of everything,

Russ 02:54

there's one difference Mauricio | can get my health insurance to pay for my doctors. Okay, I'm sorry to interrupt that

Mauricio 03:02

that is true. Um, and so um, you know, there's a general practitioners kind of Canada, the jack of all trades, they
know a little bit about everything, but you know, so if it's something high level that they can probably do, | can
certainly help you probably with a content standard contract and an independent contractor agreement or some
vendor agreements like that. But then everybody specializes in as you guys know, I'm a | specialize in security. So I'm
an SEC lawyer. So that's why | help clients raise the capital, we've also got a real estate attorney in house that helps
with the real estate in the transactional. But if you're looking for sort of business stuff, that’s probably another
attorney that you want to have in your in your pocket, we've got a great relationship with one that we typically refer
people to but if you're looking for a little bit more deeper stuff, where you really want to do a deep dive, you want to
have you know, both parties, you know, kind of give their input to the agreement, and then making sure that your
specific needs are, are met, that's probably a business attorney. If you're dealing with employees, there's employment
attorneys, | mean, just the Justice there's lots of types of specialties and | think, what you generally want to do and
which is what | try and do in my practice is | know and not just like the tax stuff | know enough to be dangerous and
know when to identify an issue that requires specialty and so obviously if it's you know, if you're working with us
because you're you've got a syndication gone, so we're working on this syndication, but if and if it's something simple
works. And you can show your future investors. Look, I've already done this. Here's the structure. | got capital. Yes, it
was my parents, but I've got capital, we did this. And look how it's going. It's going great. Now | want to take it to the
next level and bring in some outside additional investors.

Alex Petkas 30:39

Yeah, that's really helpful. Sounds like | got some homework to do. Yeah, we did before the deal closes. So | think

there's, you know, we have some time.

Russ 30:48

Well, let me let me help you with some of the homework because the the key to getting the right answers is asking
great questions. And the way you phrased, you know, what you were doing is you were describing kind of, you know,
what you were trying to do, which was close, but you really weren't talking about why you were trying to do it. So
start start with kind of the why, you know, and then and then you're, you're looking for outcomes, and stay very
focused on the outcomes and try not to dictate to the team early what the strategies and tactics should be, because
you don't know what you don't know. But if you tell them the outcome, that gives you some options, the other thing
is, is you really have to spend time doing the what if? What if | die? What if my operators no good? What if my
parents hate each other? And they start fighting? What if they gang up on me and decide they want to take over?
Right? Just keep asking yourself all these what if scenarios, and then try to work it out? Ask questions, but bring them
all to your team and say, Hey, here's here's what I’m trying to accomplish my outcome? Not what I'm trying to
accomplish my tactics, which is what we often do, we say, we start out going, Okay, you in your mind's eye, you have
this outcome. And they do that all the time. What are you trying to do while I'm trying to do this, this and this. Now,
that's not what you're trying to do? You're trying to do this? You just think you have to do this, this and this to get
there and you're conflating those in your mind, don't do that. Be very focused on what the finished product looks like,
for you. And for everybody involved. Number two, is figure out all the what ifs because the people aren't, your
advisors aren't coming in, they don't know what the dynamics are. They don't know where the mines are, they know
where the common mines are. And a good one will ask you a lot of those questions, especially when they're working
on your disclosures, because you have to think of every conceivable thing that could possibly go wrong. But usually
it's what could go wrong with the deal. But the other part of is what could go wrong with the partnership? What
could go along with the relationship? And then there's what could go wrong legally? versus what could go wrong in
terms of what you are? Or are not willing to do? Am | willing to be engaged in litigation with my parents? Am | willing
to face whatever this situation Am | willing to step in and manage this if my operator fails? Am | you know, am |
willing to sacrifice my income to go hire somebody to take my place, or you know, and be very careful as well I'm
very particular about business modeling, because if you have anybody in the in the thing working for free for some
reason, other than a piece of the action, you know, then you don't have anything to offer. So it's early syndicator
sometimes, and it's knowable, and | totally get it, we'll work for free because they just want the experience they just
wanted on their resume, and they cut it to the bone so the numbers look good and they say I'll work for free and all
that's fine until you get sick or die or somehow become incapacitated, and now your investors are screwed. They're
not going to get what they bargained for and you didn't really have a viable deal if you couldn't put enough meat in
it to pay for somebody competent to run it if that person's you great. If you want to take something off and you say
hey I'm doing this for experience and take your part and hire somebody to do your part and just ride shotgun and
learn you won't make any money but the deal still has to pay for the function that that that that’s super important.
And it’s so easy to skip and then all sudden you have a model that really doesn't work in the real world. And and so
I'm big on that. Anyway, merci. Do you have anything you want to toss in on that anything you can think of that |
triggered and you

RA . . AA rN
Ww MOUrIClIO 54:56

know, | know you're big on that and | agree. Yeah, | think you've said it.

© Russ 35:03

JO

JO

Okay. All right, Billy, you have anything you want to ask or comment on in regard to that last subject?

35:10

No, not to that last subject. You, you made me think of some other things. Okay. You got something new. Okay. |
went into Thanks,

Alex Petkas 35:15

guys. Yeah, no,

Russ 35:17

it's all it’s all you.

35:19

And so this is this is really bringing it back to securities, right? And just to make sure that I'm understanding, because
between now and in the end of the year, there's one of the things that I'm working on, | reached out to you already, is
to do a raise between 1.2 and 1.5, and $2 million. But you just said something that made me think. So | have a couple
of investors that | know just based on their 401, KS and IRAs that they want to actually do some things with this, that
alone, they classify as accredited investors, because there are two, two to two to 5 million, kind of in these ranges.

And if we, | guess, thinking about how to what's the what's the best way? If | don't even know how to really ask the
question, but there’s maybe one person who's not an accredited investor. And sometimes, if it's if it’s just trying to
think, to do one raise with accredited investors or potentially have a, if there's one non accredited investor, then it
becomes a 506. b automatically, even though | think we could probably do the raise without that person. So | don't
maybe it's more of a business question.

Russ 36:40

Well, let’s do the math. And the math will tell you what | tell you what. So you have to look at you first of all, you have
to understand the ramifications of bringing a non accredited in and so you have enough legal understanding to
recognize there's a difference between the two and the non accredited opens up some issues, you may not be what
they know what they are. And so the first question you have to ask yourself is why do | want this non accredited in
there is the amount of effort it would take for me to put the non accredited in more than the amount of effort it
would take for me to go find an accredited to take his or her place? Right. First question, it's like, Is it worth it to have
the non accredited in if you decide Yes, for whatever reason, personal reason, because it’s almost always going to be
a personal reason. | this is a friend of mine, | have a relationship, it’s a stepping stone to something bigger. Whatever
reason it is you decide, yes, it's worth it. Now you have to go say, you know, it’s worth it, at least in terms of you're
willing to investigate it. Now you go hire your attorney, and you say, Okay, | want to put a nonaccredited in this deal,
September 23, 2020 - Ask the Mentor Q&A Call on
Legal and Co...

@ Thu, 10/79:29AM @ 51:05
SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, mauricio, investors, accredited investor, question, accredited, legal, business, employees, Ilc, attorney, document, deal,

money, security, raise, lawyer, billy, structure, agreement

SPEAKERS

Russ, Mauricio, Alex Petkas

) Russ 00:16

Hey syndication mentoring club, it's Russ, we're here for another edition of Ask the mentors and it's our legal ask the
mentors with Mauricio ruled Hey, Mauricio, how you doing?

 ) Mauricio 00:27

I'm doing fantastic.

© Russ 00:28

I'm gonna put this in speaker view, even though we like looking at Billy, there we go. So we are this is about legal and
compliance. And you know, the main thing | mean, working with lawyers is really about making sure that we follow
the rules, and stay out of trouble both with the regulators, and also with our investors and all of our various
counterparties. And some of that's litigation. And the question that we have here that comes up, is is actually coming
from Oh, it's from Billy. So Billy, since you're on you want to ask your question, or do you want me to do it since |
haven't printed it out in front of me?

01:05

That would be great. If you wouldn't mind. Just the refresh would be awesome.

jo

© Russ 01:09

Okay. All right. So it's just a quick question regarding the types of services team members when looking to
accomplish the following legal contracts for contract employees and options for NDA and DNC non disclosure

agreement non disclosure non compete regarding contract employees perspective investors says we're currently in
educational process, which | think it's where people are getting excited. But we're not there yet. Right now, the only
thing we have are those three licenses. And we don't know if it's going to be next week, next month, next year, or
what it's going to look like a weekend getaway a month, a year long five year program, we don't know. But that's
kind of what people are excited about. But it certainly doesn't affect | don't think it affects anything right now | can't
imagine you're talking to an investor is not accredited, and they're like, Well, let me go get my series seven exam and
I'll come back to you in a couple weeks. And now I'm going to be accredited. | don't think that's going to happen, but
but at least it opens the door for something in the future that i think you know, if we have this conversation a year
from now or two years from now, and we have a few of these, you know, certified programs, it could be something
interested where if somebody really is an investor, a passive investor, and they really want to be able to get access to
some of these deals, that they potentially would take the time to go pay and do a course and then get get a
certification just like any other, you know, licensed person. So there's some potential there. But for right now, that
doesn't sound too exciting. The other thing that people kind of throw out there is they did add another category with
these called, like knowledgeable employees of the issuer, which really doesn't apply to anybody that that | know of.
So just to give you the idea here is if you had an existing company or corporation and |, the example | like to give is
think of Facebook prior to them going public. So it's a it’s a startup company, they've got a bunch of employees and
maybe seven or eight or 10. And they're in the business of raising capital, private capital, there might be somebody
an employee, in your company that is dealing with the investors who just has that maybe they're an executive and
they have some kind of a knowledgeable, they're knowledgeable enough that they're going to be considered
accredited. Again, in our world issuers who is actually the LLC, the syndication, LLC, they're great. They don't even
have any employees, like you're not even an employee of your own company, right? This is the issue where that's
actually issuing securities. And again, | doubt that anybody's gonna say, well, you're not accredited, let me hire you
as a W two employee and pay you X amount of money so that you can then becoming knowledgeable employees.
So | don't think that’s going to help us at all. And honestly, that's really the extent to it. There's a couple of other stuff
that literally just codifies things, we already knew that through some staff sec interpretations that we just knew were
there, but they weren't specifically in the statutes and now that they’re adding it, but those are the two main things
and as you can see, it’s not it's not going to be a game changer, at least until they come out with that certification
program. So I'm almost | think I'm gonna call What am | calling is nothing to see here or something like that. I'm
gonna do my blog. Like there's just nothing too exciting about what happened. Other than it opens the door for
potentially future certificate, not not, not potentially it'll happen. | just don’t know when or what it's going to look like.

© Russ 49:40

Gotcha. Okay, so guys, anything else you want to talk about? Well, you've got us we've got eight more minutes
budgeted, but we don't need to belabor anything. I've got nothing else to say.

(&) Alex Petkas 49:51

Real quick, what kind of lawyer should | go to once | have my goals, like a securities lawyer or just regular real estate
lawyer?

© Russ 50:00

Yeah, so that’s a great question. So, Mauricio, I'll

ro ) Mauricio 50:05

let you understand on this specific scenario that you came up. Just give me a call I'll, I'll ask you some better
whatever, and then they sell your, your, your your client list because you gave them access, and they sold it to a
competitor here in the US. What are you gonna do you're gonna go fly to Vietnam or Thailand and do something
about it?

A 14:32

What so which is actually so it’s a legal question that starts but rest | now. Well, when you said earlier, it’s an
operational question. This is very clearly an operational question. So what type of documentation would we would
be with what person where | would have greater leverage in terms of being able to protect the assets that come
across that person's desk or their their inbox so it’s more about the operational design?

© Russ 14:56

Yeah. So this is something that you know, Stacy I've had to work on together. And | can tell you what we do. And
there's two parts. One is that, you know, | just contract all my employees through one place. And that way, | don't
have to worry about it. | have one relationship, it’s a US relationship, and they go hire people from wherever and |
don't care. that's their problem, not mine. Right. So that that's one thing. Now, you know, do you pay a little bit extra
for that? Yeah. But is, is it worth just having one point of contact and not having to worry about all this other stuff?
Probably, you know, especially because if you have the ability to raise money should never be the issue. Right? What
bogs you down is you're trying to do all these little piddly things that aren't raising money and you don't have
enough money. And if you have overhead, now you're bleeding out before you get to the thing that really matters to
me, just put the things you need to put in place in big chunks with responsible people in charge of them and forget
about them. And go forward, you know, when you can have really probably more than six people that are directly
reporting to you and be efficient. | can't even have that many, because I'm not smart enough. So you know, having
the right one or two or three people is really, really important. | think that in terms of document control, some of the
processes, we don't allow anybody to establish any account with their personal email, people do that all the time,
they set up the Google Drive and all sudden, you've got documents just spread all over the place, and you don't even
control the underlying account. So all accounts have to be opened with a role email address at our domain that we
have complete control over. And then people come and people go in that role, but it never changes. It's just always
you know, whatever it is Infusionsoft at Real Estate guys. radio.com or whatever the vendor is that real estate guys
radio.com are we even, you know, to prevent people from kind of gaming that and in spoofing by guessing that who
our vendors are, we have domain names that are administrative in nature, they're not public facing. And so nobody
really knows who they are, what they are. And so it's vendor ad, administrative domain Comm. Right? Nobody. |
mean, and that's it, and we have complete control. So that's one thing. You know, in terms of documents, | mean, you
know, we don't we don't we have a policy, we don't let people send sensitive documents. fact, | just was on the on a
zoom call yesterday with a veteran club member, and maybe he'll tell the story, so | won't drop the name, I'll let him
tell the story. But somebody hacked his email address and got one of his investors to wire | think, 50 or $100,000 to
Mexico. And the bank called it goes, are you sure about this? Oh, yeah, it came from this trusted source. And so they
wired the money. Now, you know, the guy should have made a quick follow up phone call, you know, but at the end
of the day, | mean, who eats that? good customer service, probably this indicator. So that's, that's messy, right. So we
never never allow sensitive wiring instructions, or any of those types of things. You know, going out, through
unsecured means. So you know, there are systems like box and in different things that you can use to store
documents and do team share. So you have to look at the technology, or you're more of a technology guy than me.
So you can figure all that out, you know, DocuSign, things like that. You know, | don't particularly care for Google. But
the company that | hired to organize everything, said, we're going to use Google, so | just bit my lepen did it. And |
thought | liked Amazon better, but based on information security, I'm not convinced they're any better anyway. So
you know, you're gonna have to deal with the fact that you may have some breaches. So part of it is is kind of three
prong. And this is true in all asset protection. It's good business practice and disciplines. That's what we just been
talking about. Number two is a good legal structure with jurisdiction and the right representation, meaning the right
what is it going to take? And then they'll tell you all the things you're going to have to do to do it? And then the next
question is, well, how much is all that going to cost? And now you have that now you go back and you ask yourself,
okay, before | was willing to do it based on the hassle factor, | was willing to put my time in to do it to put this person
in the deal rather than go chase and other accredited where | wouldn't have to do it. Now that | understand how
much it's going to cost in terms of time and money. Am | still willing to do it? And then you make a business decision?
Yes, | really, really, really want to do it. Okay, well, then next thing, you know, is that, okay, how do | how do | do this,
and now you're ready to implement. But if you don't do that, that initial thought process, then you end up going

down rabbit trails, you shouldn't spend any time on or committing to solve a problem you really don't even want to
solve. So everything in terms of value and return on invested time or money is always compared to what? Well, if | put
this accredited investor in, okay, compared to what? It's going to take a certain amount of effort. Okay. Could | put

that effort into bringing in another accredited investor? Maybe, right.

ro ) Mauricio 38:52

Yeah. And it sounds like | may be speculating here a little bit but you know, one thing is for sure the the additional
hassle factor and the potentially the cost but | think from what you said, it may be that you're trying to do a certain
exemption like you're trying to do a five or succeed because you want to market the deal. And that's how you're
going to find your investors and then bringing in a non accredited would disallow that and so now you're forced to
not basically that would force you or prohibit you from advertising which is not necessarily a one for one switch. It’s
now | bring this person in and now all these people that | potentially had access to the advertising are no longer
available to me is that is that part of it? Or was it just flat out the difference in time and cost?

A 39:33

Well, it's more it's the what's not necessarily the time and cost but it’s more the once things are under contract, then
engaging with you and your team and figuring out okay, what is the best way they're potentially | know, people that
would be involved and it's what rest | mean, you hit it right on the spot right out right on the head, right? It’s your
people who | know would want to Be involved. However, they're not an accredited investor. That's

© Russ 40:05

the burden. It's the burden hand hanging fruit. It's like, hey, these are the people | know | can get the deal off the
ground. And the other part that | forgot to put into the equation, this is just basic like decision making one on one,
right? It doesn't matter what you're talking about, in this case, okay? If | take this action, what doors close? Right? If |
take this action, what first one? Yep. Right? If | go, if | go B, then C closes? What's that gonna cost me? So there's,
there's there's lost opportunity also. So you know, again, nobody can tell you what you need to do. But what we can
help you do is ask better questions. Because when you ask better questions, you'll find better answers. And before |
forget, | want to tap in on we were talking earlier about some of the benefits of LLCs. And Mauricio said, Hey, you,
you know you can have ownership and distributions, they don't have to line up, you have a lot of flexibility. The same
is true for tax breaks. And so you've heard Dave Zook market himself as a tax strategist, and he sells tax breaks to
the people. And because he has that flexibility, and of course, you need to work with your CPA and your attorney to
know how much flexibility you have, but you do have quite a bit of flexibility. So | just want to make sure that
anybody on the call, or certainly anybody watching this, after the fact, always remember to take into consideration
the tax benefits that can pass through to your investors and, you know, subject to making sure you treat investors fail
fairly or give everybody equal opportunity, you may be able to set up different classes of investors that are going to
get part of their ROI and tax breaks that will benefit them and other investors that are going to get part of their ROI
from true ROI because the tax breaks don't benefit them. And when you put both of them side by side, each party is

getting the same. In terms of ROI it's just one is coming in a different form. Of course you have to disclose all that
this family, it's in my family. Yeah, yeah. And so I'm trying to divide. Ownership among basically two estranged
parents, one of whom is providing the capital, one of whom actually has provided a little bit of the capital. And then
with me managing it, for the benefit of both of them. And so | just, | want to know, like, how to how to structure that
as an | guess it would be like an LLC, where | could kind of just get right up in the operating agreement that based
on contributions such such as party is entitled to 90% ownership or 80% ownership and such party is entitled to 10
on the basis of capital contributions. And | am as the as the manager, the operating manager may entitled to 10%
ownership or something like that, or whatever, we want to make it and it could be legally pretty simple at this point.

Russ 24:36

Yeah, | think so. | think | got it. So Mauricio, | mean, | have a couple thoughts, but I'm sure it's nothing that you won't

cover anyway. So I'll toss it to you since you're the legal guy and I'm just a schmo.

Mauricio 24:46

Ya know, so, so Yeah, | was gonna say that, you know, you've answered all you basically answered your question. So,
yeah, a couple things to keep in mind though. Yes. | think it's a relatively simple structure. | think you nailed it. It’s, it's
there's no reason why it needs To be more complicated than an LLC where you're the manager of that LLC whether
you're getting you know some kind of ownership Don't Don't forget that ownership and distributions are two different
things they don't have to match even though most of the times they do, you could own you know 50% of the
company and only get 20% of the revenues are fixed to the company and 80% of the revenue cap 0% of the
company and get 20% of revenues because you're the manager so that's all flat One of the nice things about LLC is
limited liability companies is their flexibility and so from a structural standpoint, you can determine who has control
I'm presuming you want to keep control so you can set it up where they have zero voting rights, you could give them
limited voting rights | mean, you could literally figure out how you want to structure it what | tell clients is you send
me a Word document with some bullet points and tell me what you're trying to accomplish and then I'll figure out
how to actually make that happen from a structural standpoint. The one thing | will caution cuz | see Russ chomping
at the bit over here is that there is no I'm just gonna tell you there's no friends and family or family exemptions under
the securities laws so even though Yes, it’s your parents and | know they're extremely strange or even if they if they
weren't if they're just your parents or your siblings or it's a family there is no exemption that says well you don't have
to registered so long as we're all immediate families or you know like estate planning so it is technically a security so
you would be because you are not providing your basically you told me you're you're you're you're you're pooling the
money you're going to be managing it you want to take some fee for managing it maybe take a 10% ownership for
all the work you're doing technically that's a security and depending again we go not to do it here but you go
through all that analysis you know they accredited non accredited you need a ppm | mean all that stuff right? But so
it's really more you know, | always say look you know, | guess what are the odds that your dad or your mom is going
to sue you but your brother or uncle but you know it has happened before so that | don’t want to give that as advice
and say well it’s your it’s your parents don't worry about it that's that wouldn't be responsible but you can obviously
make the decision but technically that's a securities offering the only way around that which | don't think from what
you're describing it doesn't quite fit is if you know with three people | would try and structure it more as a joint
venture arrangement as opposed to a sort of passive versus you know activity you're the active person and your
parents seem to be the passive they're just gonna write you a check and go home. In theory if the three of you are
actively involved and they you know, they put a certain amount of money and you put some money in everybody
really everybody generated the profits not just you then with three people we could certainly set it up as a joint
venture but | don't know if that's still sound like that's what you're trying to call me you really want to have all the
control and get compensated for basically putting this thing together and that's a textbook definition of a security

Al ee ot AT AN
JO

like like you mentioned an NDA or you know, some you know, something very basic, obviously, that’s something that
we can handle in house. But if you suddenly come to me, for example, I'll give you a great example, like we created
entities as well. So we'll set up an LLC, if it’s single member easy, even if it's a multi member, and it's just two people
and everything kind of split down the middle. Easy, right? You just set it up, it’s fairly template ID. But if you have a
business relationship with yours, let's say you got a co sponsor come in, and this is your first you know, business
relationship that you're trying to document and here are all the things I’m going to do and this all things they're
going to do. And we really want to make sure that this particular agreement that's part of our new company, that's
something that | would say, wait a minute, guys. Let's, let’s go, let's go hire a business attorney, who can then make
sure by the way, the attorney would represent one of the parties had the other party have a business lawyer
representing them. And then the two attorneys can actually put together a document that's a little bit deeper. So
that's kind of the long the long winded answer to that there's all kinds of attorneys. Yeah, we were mentioning
insurance as well. So you typically would have some kind of an insurance attorney that's either reviewing your
policies or making recommendations as to the types of insurances that you want to keep. But it’s always nice to have
a sort of a, you know, when you're starting off, you're probably not going to have a general counsel, which is kind of
the attorney that we kind of handle all the relationships with all the without the attorneys. But you know, we try and
act a little bit like a general counsel where | say, hey, look, that's not my area. But I've got john over here, or Bethany

over here, whatever we can make introductions.

05:49

Okay. And that makes sense. And maybe also, to add a little bit more context, one of the things that is happening is
now as the just as I'm starting to get stuck, it's because well, as we move closer and closer to syndication, and putting
together syndication, I'm bringing on more people, because that's going to help, it's just going to help expand, right,
and Russ talks about it all the time, leverage the efforts of others. And so now it’s that point. And so as other people
are coming on, and some of the people are in geographically different places, as documents start to come across
their desk, as we're raising capital, | need to make sure that the people that are there that, that | have some type of,
of, | guess security or privacy or making sure that what they're seeing is going to stay in house. And so | was just
thinking about how to do that, from a legal perspective on the employee side in protection, and then obviously
talking to you as we go out and raise capital, which is on the on the on the SEC side of things. So hopefully that

makes sense.

Mauricio 06:50

Yeah, it does totally. So specifically answer your question, you definitely want to have some sort of, you know, non
disclosure, confidentiality agreements with all of the people that are that are touching that, and you could, in theory,
have that as a separate standalone document. But that's typically included in the language when you're putting
together whatever contractual arrangement you have with them. So maybe it’s an independent contractor
agreement, if they're an employee, you're gonna have an employment contract or whatever cost, you're going to
have a contract with these people, you should have a contract with these people that says, hey, you're going to do
this type of work, I'm going to pay you this much, here's our expectations. And in that document, you would specify
Look, you're going to be handling very sensitive information, you are not under any circumstances to do anything
outside of this with that information. These are private, you know, you're gonna have access, you know, you want to
vet them, too, you don't want to just give people access to bank accounts or things like that. So you want to have
separate from that sort of your own processes and procedures in place to make sure that it'll happen from the legal
side, you just want to paper all that make sure you set the expectations up at the beginning. And in that legal
document, whether again, employment or independent contractor or vendor agreement, whatever you want to call
it, it has language in there that that spells out that this is confidential, that you own the documents, that's another
thing that's typically in the document, and Russ talked about intellectual property, you know, even if they create the
party, let's say you give them a research assignment, or they produce a product based on your guidance, then when
