bootstrap. Right? Right, you can go raise as much money, if you're the one thing you've got to master is is is is you
always have to have, you always have to be out there. building your brand and building your network. And you
always have to have a short path to cash. And the short path to cash is to put a good offering in front of your brand
in front of your network. And based on the power of your brand, it'll fund where people get hung up is they think they
have to bring the offering you don't. You don't you can go find somebody that’s got a great offering and take a piece
of it. So you know, you don’t mean my dad was in manufacturing and his idea of going into business was inventing a
product, figuring out how to make it and sell it. | came out of distribution. | never thought about making a product |
just looked for somebody that had a product that | could sell. And then | went into brokerage which is kind of the
same thing as distribution, but | didn't have to worry about inventory or delivery or anything. All | had to do is figure
out how to put myself in between a good idea and somebody that wanted a good idea, a property and somebody
that wanted a property alone and somebody that wanted alone. It was easy. Yeah, so | gravitated towards brokerage
brokering ideas, brokering real estate brokering, finance, brokering, information products, whatever it is. Okay. So but
but all you Always have to know your short path to cash. If you don't know it, and aren't confident you can execute

on it, then you have to have lots of reserves, and you have to have an early alarm bell telling you you're bleeding out,
or you'll procrastinate right until you're out of business. So, so shy, Stace, | know you wanted to interject, they stepped
on you. Did you lose? |

Staci Gray 35:20

know, | just had pulled up an example on my computer of if | could share my screen. Do | need to empower you to do
that process? Not my luck.

Russ 35:31
Yeah. Okay. So

Staci Gray 35:33
that would be helpful to you.

Scott Florida 35:34
Yes, that would be great.

Russ 35:38

Those are great questions, Scott. So | appreciate you showing up and bringing us something otherwise, Stacy and |
would have to be just monologuing. It's no fun.

Scott Florida 35:46
This is fantastic. Thank you.
doing the deal. And that you're here to help them build their financial picture over the long haul. That is so much
better than sending buddy to so to a website to fill out a Google form, | don’t care how well you tee it up. It will not
be as good as what | just did. That’s what | would do it.

&) Scott Florida 47:57

| absolutely did. That's That's excellent. That thought had even crossed my mind about filling it out, you know, with
somebody there? Yeah, that's excellent. Really good. Okay, great.

© Russ 48:10

Yeah, it's, this is high touch. This is not high tech. And even though it’s zoom calls, and even though it’s email and, you
know, electronic DocuSign. And all that stuff at the end of the day, as we talked about, | think off Mike, is that this is
a business where people are going to make a very large financial decision. And they are going to want to have the
assurance of a warm blooded human being whose ethics and competency they trust to reassure them, it's a good
decision, your responsibility is to make sure you understand them and the deal well enough, that if you do, assure
them or affirm to them, that the risk versus reward because there’s no such thing as a risk, free investment is good.
It's a risk that you are taking yourself and that you would you're putting friends and family into. Right. That's the best
you can that's the best you can do. But but they're gonna want to have that warm touch. And the more people out
there who come into this space, especially the younger generation, God bless them who are going to come in and
we're going to want to automate and streamline and make this thing very high tech, you're going to kill them. And
right now still, the older people are the ones that have money and the older people appreciate the high touch my
opinion not to be ageist or whatever it is, you know, but | think you can speak in a degree of generalities. You know,
and that's all you're doing. You're playing the probabilities. You know, older people probably want more high touch. |
think that generally speaking people don't feel comfortable just filling out forms and and doing things in the dark
even with you know, you know, yellow Follow the yellow brick road, you know, little feet, color by number instructions,
it doesn't matter. They just want the assurance of knowing that human being is there. Right? telehealth is interesting,
but I'm guessing people still like to go to the doctor. Right? And the list goes on and on. Okay, So enough about that.
Okay, so | think we're pretty much at the top of the hour. Did you have anything else that you wanted to ask that we
can cover real quick?

&) Scott Florida 50:26

No, that's, uh, anything else would be larger baths that we can catch it.

© Russ 50:32

Okay, we'll save it for next time. And as much as | enjoy kind of the exclusivity. I'm hoping next time that you have a
bunch of competition. And we have a lot more people coming in asking questions, but it’s nice because you asked
some great questions. And | think we got a chance to develop our answers a little bit more than we might have had it
been shorter. So thank you for your participation. Great question. Stacy. Any closing comments?

©) Staci Gray 50:56

| think there's, it's a good opportunity for you to do high touch and also create processes.
_JO

Russ 51:04

Yeah, they're, they're not mutually exclusive. They're mutually supportive. That's great. Okay, excellent. All right, sir.
Well, thank you very much, and we'll see you again on the next one. much. Appreciate

51:15

Russ 51:16
Okay. Bye bye.
make commitments to investors based on what financing looked like three months ago, | would that's part of your
due diligence. Just like you know, | wouldn't assume that my insurance is going to cost the same or | wouldn't assume
| wouldn't assume anything. | mean, you want to, you want to go through the your deal. But But when it comes to the
debt component, which is a big component, usually, | mean, for sure, you want to make sure that you are dealing
with current information. And there's no way you're going to keep track of everything all by yourself, it's just too
much. You know, | had a gal when | had my mortgage company, | organized it a little bit different. Rather than ask
each of my loan officers to be their own product managers, which is the way the typical lending industry was
structured back then, and probably still is today, it was just super inefficient, because it meant every loan officer had
to both be a marketer, a financial consultant, and a product manager out there shopping and being pitched. And it
meant that every wholesale rep and every purveyor of loan deals had to pitch every ello one at a time, or try to
coordinate a group meeting, which was like herding cats. It just wasn't efficient. And so | said, Well, look, let's do this,
let's just, let's hire one person whose full time job is to do nothing. But study, loan programs, and be really up to
speed, one point of contact for all of the wholesale reps to come pitch their deal to. And then she becomes the
goddess of problem solving. When a ello comes in and says, hey, I've got a scenario, | need a product that will fit that
you go, we got this, we got that. And so she didn't have to worry about marketing, and she didn’t have to worry
about it. She didn't even have to be a great salesperson. And a lot of times people who are great researchers aren't
great salespeople because they're nerdy, and they're inquisitive. And they're, you know, they study, but they're great
at product, your research and problem solving. And that that worked really well. Now, you know, you're not there yet,
but at some point, you know, but you know, you can ask questions about how your, your lenders are structured, |
don't get too much into what goes on in the sausage factory, if | like what comes out, you know, so | would start just
by looking for lenders that are in the space, you want that come recommended or referred, sit down and have an
initial consultation, just be honest about who you are and where you're headed. | mean, you want to put your best
foot forward. But you want to let them know that you intend to do some business and you intend to be loyal. You
know, I'm not saying rape me, but I’m saying I'm not going to rake you over the coals and ask you work for free. And
I'm not going to rate shop you to death treat me right. And I'll treat you right. And that's the basis | think | think any,
any good business person is going to greet that, like wow, somebody respects me and my, the value that | bring, and

then you're kind of challenging them to bring the value and challenging yourself to bring the value to them.

Scott Florida 19:03

Right. Great. So just kind of a follow up to that. So you're, when you're trying to establish relationship with a lender
and trying to get your head around the space, it's so it's a new area for me with the portfolio type of lending. Is it
wise then to try to find two or three and start, you know, at least connecting or kind of trying to get your head
around two or three potential lenders first, just to kind of get the lay of the land and have something to compare to

and get some basic information first, or do you try to just find somebody that comes recommended and just go all in.

Russ 19:44

| mean, you can go either way you just need to start but the good news is it’s never been easier to find anybody. Most
people who are holding themselves out are producing some form of content. You know, they may be blogging, they
may have a website. They may have podcasts, they may produce a newsletter, they may teach or guest appear in
different places. | mean, so lots of people who are in the space market that way. So if you're just out there listening to
a lot of content consuming a lot of content in the course of your pursuit, continuing education, you're going to run
across people. And if they're holding themselves out to be content, | mean, some people do it because they love to
teach. And they're like, Hey, I'm full, but | want to give back, okay, you know, but the vast majority of people are doing
it, because they're interested in growing their book mall, okay? And you want to help them do that, because that
means you're doing business. And yeah, so and | think that it'd be fine to talk with multiple people in the beginning,
and then you learn quickly what you like and what you don't like, it's like dating. Not that I'm an expert on that. |
used to a long time ago in high school.
that kind of chaos in your business with everybody's making it up as they go along. That might work when you got a
handful of people and you all meet at the watercooler every day. If you have 100 person firm and people were
working remotely, that dog does not hunt. If you're going to go big, that’s where you're going to get to. Okay.

&) Scott Florida 26:01

Okay. So then, on the operations side, in the loan space, essentially, the goal would be to create a SOP or a standard
operating procedure for how to go about getting the law.

© Russ 26:15

Yeah. You know, a process and really how to stay how to stay ever ready. Yeah, okay, right, because as soon as you
finish a deal, you should be getting ready for the next deal. Which means Okay, | need a consultation now with my
loan guy. And now let's look at my financials in my new reality. My new reality is | have this debt, and | have less, you
know, presumably | have less cash because | put some into the deal. And |, my equity position has changed and
whatever it is, right? So how do | look now? And what do | need to do to be ready to do the next deal? Yeah. And
then you have team members, hopefully who are in charge of doing that. So you get to your CFO or your
bookkeeper, your accounting manager, whatever level of support you have on your financial side, you go, Okay, let's
go build that hold me accountable to make sure we need to bring revenue up, we need to bring vacancy down we
need to whatever it is, whatever they tell you, you need to do, then you start managing your business to make those
numbers appear. And then when they appear, you kind of like okay, the stars lined up green light go, you know,
yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow, green, punch it go do a deal.

@) Staci Gray 27:28

Gotcha. Okay. Okay. A little bit too. With process mapping, you're only going to have like 10 core processes. And then
the rest are going to be SOPs and checklists. And we did this in the syndication fast start training. We we created
this, | don’t know. Okay, these are your 10 core processes. So what you'll do is you'll map those out. And inside the
syndication fast start training, | gave an example of swimlanes and mapping for specifically how to do it because if
you start trying to write SOPs, you're not gonna have any idea of where it fits in your big picture of the assembly line.

And then if you're building a team, they're not going to know when to pull that SOP in At what point unless you do a
process map.

© Russ 28:24

Think about a relay team Scott, you got a relay team running and you've got three right handed people one left
handed people and everybody figures out how they want to do it and then when that that right hander goes to hand
off to the left handed person they're gonna drop the baton because they didn't see the big picture.

) Staci Gray 28:45

Yeah, and also you do the process map it helps you identify each swim lane is a role so if something needs to happen
the lender needs to do something or the investor needs to do something or the capital raise fundraiser needs to do
something in their in their own swimlanes Oh, you'll know the three people that need to be involved in order for that
process to function or the six people that need to be involved in order for that process to function. So you'll know
well, that’s their decision, Scott. | mean, as long as you're dealing honestly, that's their decision. What I’m saying is in
the beginning, you know, you have kind of the promise of what you intend to do, and you invite them to be your your
person. And if they say they're willing to great and then you have an honest relationship, where you check in but you
say, you know, you know, Dave or Sue, I've been working with you for you know, you've got, by my count about 10
hours into me right now. And | just want to make sure that you're still good with this, you know, and the other thing is,
too, because you're part of a network, remember, you can compensate your providers with referrals, you may not be
ready to do a deal. But if you're out there networking, you may run into somebody and if you feel like hey, | really
need to feed this person. Because that’s what your job is, as an entrepreneur, your mission is to build a team and
feed them. It's like feed the team and the team will feed you. Does that make sense?

G) Scott Florida 13:24

Yeah, that's a great,

© Russ 13:25

it's really really short. You know, you don't resent the fact that you've got to feed the team, you look forward to
feeding them because the bigger they grow, the stronger they become, the harder they can work, the better they'll
do for you. If you're feeding somebody that's just getting fat and lazy, they don't belong on your bus. That's a
different discussion. Okay, but here you can say you can kind of get this gut sense Hey, | need to throw this person a
bone well | don’t have a deal and | don't have any money. You always have your time and your hustle it's just what
you choose to focus on. So you say well I'm going to go out there and I'm going to start chatting people up and I'm
going to start asking questions about about their their lending and so | can learn and then you may find out well |
wouldn't really recommend my guy Oh, are you looking for somebody new? Well yeah, | just met somebody that |
think might be a good fit. Now you want to be careful right? You don't want to give a glowing endorsement to
somebody you've never done business with because otherwise your credibility goes to goes down. But give the best
endorsement you can that you believe that you can give like hey, | haven't done business with this guy yet. But | plan
to he's been really generous with his time and helping educate me. He's got great reviews, he came recommended to
me by thus and so. So you know, if you're not happy and you don't have you know, somebody on deck that you think
would be a good prospect once, you know, tell, well, why don't you give me your card and I'll connect you now you're
in control. Don't just give the name out because you may not get credit. In the guy's mind for doing it, and they may
not follow through, whereas you could be the catalyst to really make it happen. Yeah. Okay.

©) Scott Florida 15:12

Okay, so the the lending piece, a lot of that is going to be built with the team. So you really just got to put that team

in places, as I'm hearing. Yeah,

© Russ 15:21

| think so | mean, because you know, when you're trying to put together a capital stack, which is what you're doing,
you know, the equity is typically a byproduct of whatever debt is available. And of course, if you're not in the
business, you don't know what that is available. | don't know what what's the rates? What are the Itvs? Well, it varies,
it depends on your balance sheet, it depends on your income, it depends on your experience, it depends on what's
going on in the market. It depends on how competitive it is. The lenders, you know, there's so many things. And if you
don't live in that world, day to day, you don't know. And so you're doing everything based on speculation, even if you
did a deal three months ago, and you're doing the exact same deal, | wouldn't pencil the deal and make my offer or
~ ~ : ~

mean, operations, | would assume has to get into the lending realm, because that's a big piece of what we do. And
so my questions are really related to that, you know, in the world that I'm working in right now, single family portfolio
of homes, how do we go about, you know, building, like, for example, if I'm buying one single family home, | can get
pre qualified for that, and then go out and just pick out a home. That's doesn't seem to work that way, when it comes
to, you know, the commercial realm. And so I'm really new at that. And so | don't really have a whole lot of
foundation on what steps need to be taken there, and how to build a company that can easily slide into securing

those loans.

Russ 03:52

Yeah, so it's a great, it's a great question. And the answer is going to be generic. And then, you know, maybe we can
dive into a little bit of detail, since we kind of have each other here for a little bit. But But here’s the thing, everything
is a process everything. And so if you're going to be a regular user of debt in real estate, and | could make a lot of
mathematical and logical arguments, why you would want to be, then you are going to have to have a brain trust,
and a, an advisory board, if you will, and a vendor network of people that you lean on, who are all a players who are
all at the top of their game, who are all staying on top of the market who are all working with lots of other investors
who are just like you solving the problems you either are facing or are going to be facing even those you don't even
know you're going to be facing. And so building your team is what this comes down to. So you know if you if if | was
going to go into this apartment space business and | knew nothing about it, then | would hire an apartment mentor,
maybe a guy like a Brad some rock, right? | would plug into an ecosystem where there were lenders and investors
who were already doing deals in the space, so that | would be able to glean from their experiences and plug into
their expertise. And then | would build relationships with them so that when | did have a question, | would, | would,
you know, hopefully get a quick phone call back and be able to have access to a quick answer. Sometimes you can
do that based on relationship, friendship, mutual exchange of ideas, a lot of that is going on, say at the community
club, call level with the mastermind calls and stuff in the forum, because you know, club members helping each other
club members, if you want to have something a little bit more reliable, you have to have people who are like on your
team, or they're on retainer, or you pledge your loyalty to In other words, if you're going to have a commercial loan
broker on your business in your team, and you're relying upon that person to coach you up in between deals to
prepare you from deal to deal for the next deal. And that's what you should be doing, then when it comes time to do
the deal, you just do the deal. That's not the time to take the guy out to the woodshed and beat him up over his fees.
Right? | mean, because that that to me, you know, that's the same thing is we want to go out and we want to window
shop at a store that's taken all the trouble to pay retail space and pie bait, pay inventory and electricity and have
staff there to show you and answer your questions. And then you go online and order it because you can save $5
that may seem like a good idea. But you're you're killing yourself. Because someday that store is not going to be
there for you. If you want that store to be there, you need to support it. And so | feel the same way, if somebody is
charging so much money, that, that it kills the deal. Or you're not seeing the value, okay, then have an honest
conversation about the value, maybe maybe they're charging a player rates, but they're giving you B player service,
that's a different discussion. But the point is, your goal in organizing your business to scale is to make sure that you
have anticipated the types of needs you're going to have going forward. And you are beginning to build out
relationships with people, professional service providers, that are going to be able to help you as you progress. So to
kind of come Well, first of all, let me stop there and see if Stacy has anything she wants to add. And then Scott, I'll

toss it back to you to see if there's anything you want to ask. So, Stace, anything you want to throw down on that,

Staci Gray 07:44

| definitely agree having a process for it. So when you know that you're going to have a deal, you have a structure for
what it's going to be funneled through so you can anticipate it in advance so you know who you need on your team
or who you need to call or what resources are going to be needed to be available to you in advance so that you're
(&) Staci Gray 35:48

This is an example of a deal acquisition. So phase one, this process map is for phase one. So research and
development, that's how it starts. So they receive a potential deal, whether they found it or it was brought to them or
something, then they do their pre screen. So that's the deal with whatever their preset parameters are. So you will at
some point, have developed your syndication philosophy, and you will know the types of deals that you want to do.
And then you have to pre screen it to see if it's even worth going deeper. And if it is, if there’s no interest in the deals
and operation says No thank you, we'll keep you in mind for the future. These are our parameters. If it's a yes, then
you schedule a call with your research and development team and the fund manager. And then in you go through
your due diligence checklist. And then if it's a no we say no, thank you, if it’s a yes, we sit schedule another call with
the deal provider the week, the r&d team and the fund manager. So if they're in swim lanes here, these are called
foot lanes where it's cut off kind of right here. Know that you need your r&d team, your operations team and your
fund manager in phase one to make a decision. Okay, thanks to it. So this is a this is unique to one of an OTS client.
So this is not not everybody would do it this way, this is unique, this client, but this and then each of these turn into a
SOP. So if you start creating SOPs right now, you're not going to know where it fits, it’s kind of hard to know, okay,
when do | pull that SOP into what I'm doing this, the team know when to use a specific SOP. Also, the other thing
with doing is swim lanes. And swim lanes are based on roles, not people. But if something breaks down, you know
what swim lane was the breakdown. So there's no well he was supposed to do that, or she was supposed to do this or
any confusion about where responsibility lies. Um, and usually people are more effective and productive and can
contribute more when they know if they're owning something versus if they're not. So also helps with, with, like team
management, to make sure everybody knows what they're clearly doing. So this is specifically for acquiring a deal.

Um, so | don't know, | thought maybe that helped give you an example.

® Scott Florida 38:30

No, that's, that's fantastic. That's exactly the kind of thing that's rolling around in my head right now is trying to
figure out like, when you said swim lanes, it was a little fuzzy, but having that laid out, like that helped a ton. And I'm
gonna go back and print screen those once we get the son club, you know, so yeah, that's fantastic. So very helpful.
And | guess to like, as I’m thinking about that, some of the steps that we're taking right now, the lending is a big piece
in my world right now trying to get that figured out and understand the whole picture. You know, we talked a little bit
last time about how important it is to keep building brand building the network. And so, you know, working on that,
and in that realm, working on the investor questionnaire. That's a that's part of operations. In our,

© Russ 39:26

again, everything is part of operations, because everything is a process, right? | mean, everything you have to do,
everything you have to do is a process. Okay? And so it all comes back to, you know, organizing those processes in
such a way that you can automate them and leverage and scale.

®) Scott Florida 39:43

Okay. And so like with the, one of the things that we were working on, as we're putting together that investor
questionnaire is, is that something that we can do through a form like a Google form, is that an okay way to do that
or does that have to be structured in a certain way with certain levels of security and extra level of security than
what you would normally get in a Google form. How do you go about?

© Russ 40:07
Well, there's there's three parts, there's three parts to the question. So one part is the legal is whether or not that is
legally, whether it meets the legal requirement of whatever it is you're trying to document. So specifically to
documenting their accreditation, the answer is probably no. But that's a question you would ask Maria Marie co or
somebody like Marie, she, or you can ask on the next legal q&a,

&) Scott Florida 40:36

more beef or bread? So yeah,

© Russ 40:38

so so then your investor questionnaires got to cover two things, which is, are they sophisticated? And how do you
know that? And when did you meet them relative to when the deal was actually originated, and you need to make
sure that you met them and established a substantive relationship before. So you have to have whatever that eight
persons or eight item checklist or whatever it is that was discussed. But again, that's a process that you're going to
take people through, you know, an investor development process of developing and establishing their sophistication
of developing your reel and documenting your relationship. And then eventually, you know, pre qualifying them,
which is probably where your head is at in terms of an investor questionnaire, in terms of, you know, what's their
appetite for risk? And what kind of deals are they looking for, what type of timeframe financial outcomes, what
advisors are part of their decision making process? So there's a whole host of questions you would ask, that are really
more about the sale side of things, so you get the legal side of things, the sales side of things, and, and | guess the
legal would break down into the documentation side, because the sales is going to break down into the suitability,
you know, just because, you know, like Stacey talked about, and it's true in your team, but it's also true in your
investors, you have to align, they have to align, it's that orange, you know, over the, the apple or whatever the from
the secrets of successful syndication, right? You there has to be an alignment, right? You can't you can't you can't put
somebody who's pursuing, you know, preservation of capital and conservative income, you know, in a rehab deal or a
new build or something where absorption isn't proven, or there’s a lot of risk of execution, you know, you want to sell
them something that's mature, seasoned performing, you know, and yeah, they're not going to get as much bang for
their buck, because you're buying safety, but they're going to get what they came for. And that's what is important.

G) Scott Florida 42:50

Yeah. Good. Okay. Stacy, do you have any thoughts on the type of form? Or is there a expectation there as well. And
|

© Russ 43:02

wouldn't put anything confidential in Google. We.

®) Staci Gray 43:07

So we have used forms in Infusionsoft. So we can track everything in our CRM. So you just it automatically tags them.
So it starts the process of developing that relationship. And then also, it makes it easier to send out emails to them,
because you immediately know who, who's interested in what and where they're at.
September 2020 - ATM LIVE Q&A Call on Business
Operations wi...

@ Wed, 9/29 9:30AM  @ 51:31

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

deal, people, business, person, process, investor, questions, lender, bookkeeper, building, sop, stacy, lending, team, swim lanes,

decision, form, loan, loan broker, operations

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Staci Gray

) Russ 00:16

Hey everybody, this is Russ it is a another edition of Ask the mentors and this one is on operation. So here with me is
the beautiful and lovely and highly intelligent and disciplined Stacy gray. He stays he’s supposed to say hi. She's
waving, okay. And and our one and only participants so if you're if you're watching this after the fact, | just want to
encourage you take advantage of these, you know, the club is not going to be small forever. At some point, you know,
we'll do these calls, and it’s going to be kind of first come first serve, it's going to be maybe limited to the 10 people
like we do the community calls. So this is you know, kind of rare opportunities for those of you that are in the club at
the founding level, to kind of get some one on one to get some questions answered, hopefully you're taking
advantage of the George Ross calls to rare opportunity. | mean, George is like a national treasure and he’s, you know,
over 90 years old, so don't be thinking that I'll do that next year, there may not be a next year, I'm using good health.
But you know, when you're 90, you know, you're you're you're kind of in way into the fourth quarter. So anyway, just
just encourage you to participate. Because, you know, we don't want to get up here, Stacy and |, Robert and |, me,
whoever is doing these things, none of us, Mauricio, we don't want to get up here and just, you know, monologue and
talk about what we think is interesting we want to be dealing with what's going on in the real world in your real life is
you're out there pushing your mission as a syndicator is to go out every day and push yourself till you get stuck all
growth is at the margin. And so if you're operating purely within your comfort zone, you're not growing, and your
businesses are going to grow, you're not going to grow as a person, your income cycle grow, and you're going to get
frustrated in a negative way, meaning you're going to be frustrated, because you're not growing. So I'm here to tell
you, you're going to be frustrated, no matter what you're they're going to be frustrated because you're stagnating, or
you're going to be frustrating, because you're always at the edge of your ability and a little bit over your head. And I'll
tell you my life experience and I'm 60 years old is is much better to go through life, pushing yourself to your limits, if if
you have the right people around you, and you're in the right environment, which is the entire purpose of the club. So
that's what it's about. This is a lot more about community than it is about content content comes out of the
community, but it comes out of your real world experiences to take advantage of it. So okay, off my soapbox. So we
have with us Scott, Florida from Michigan, not from Florida, as opposed to Scott Michigan who lives in Florida. No,

I'm kidding. Anyway, so Scott, you have a question. So fire away?

©) Scott Florida 02:51

Yeah. So my questions are really related to the lending piece. You know, it would be interesting I, over the long haul, |
&) Staci Gray 20:52

| think it's also important when you're building your team, whether it's lenders, or attorneys, or CPA, or business
people or even investors is to have an alignment of values, because anyone can really do not anyone, but a lot of
people can do that the function of that role, but are they a good fit for you long term with your vision and your
values and your goals? So | think that's important also.

© Russ 21:19

Yeah, | mean, you know, we want to know, you know, the, when we, you know, we were teaching mom and pop
investors, it was, you know, number one, first thing we want to know is do you eat your own cooking? Do you know,
are you an investor? We think that's important. Number two, is, you know, how many of the clients that you work with
our investors, of course, you know, again, you're talking to a residential lender, a lot of their businesses, homeowners,
okay? But how many times? Or how many times a day? Are they solving problems that I'm likely to face? Right? So
the more tell, you know, tell me a little bit about your business. Tell me about your, your customer base, you know, the
kind of problems you solve on a daily basis, the kind of value that you're bringing what people really enjoy, about
you, and the things you hate doing the things that if | brought to you, you'd rather that | didn't | mean, help me
understand that, right? You're just trying to figure out what they like, and what they don't like, what they're good at.
and then and then the other thing is, is | want to know, well, who support you, and how do they support you? Because
if you're a one man or woman band, and you go down, and I'm in the middle of a deal, I'm screwed. So you might be
the smartest person on earth. But if you're a one man band, | need to compensate for that vulnerability. And
hopefully, they have, but it’s it's a valid question. And so you know, those are those are basic questions. The other big
question | want to know is, do you play well with others? Are you willing to, if |, if | call up to on a conference call with
my bookkeeper, my asset protection my tax person and you, are you willing to do that, and then what you're
watching for, because nobody will ever admit this, but you're gonna, you're gonna have to watch for people that, you
know, just always have to be right. Can never hear what somebody else has to say, will not change their mind even
when proven wrong, right? It’s like no. Right? collaboration is nobody's right? Nobody's wrong. We're all looking for
the answer. And the answer is whatever's in my best interest because I'm the client. Right? So it seems like common
sense, but you know, it’s just people are funny. You know, a lot of a students especially on the tax and legal side,
legal, especially big egos. Right. All right. Good. So anyway, yeah. So | mean, even that, if you notice, you know, you
you, we talked about that and | have in my mind, a process. Right? There's a process a series of questions that |
asked things that | want to know a process | go through and developing and vetting the relationship. So you just
want to continually be thinking everything single thing you need to do you always have to ask yourself, what is the
process? What is the process, | don’t even know what the process is, we'll just pick anything that you can think of in
the life cycle. And then work forward and backward until you have mapped out the entire life cycle. And then have
conversations with other people and ask them about their processes. And you know, if you say tell me your process,
they're gonna like, | don't really have a process, but this is what | usually do, which is their process. If you say to
somebody, how do you handle they'll tell you their process, but they don't have it labeled as a process. And most of
the time because people aren't thoughtful and intentional in their process creation. They're sloppy, or like me, cc will
tell you | reinvented on the fly constantly, which absolutely drives a team crazy. How do you want this done? It
depends on what day you asked me and what I'm thinking about. Right? So they record me and then call me out
when | contradict myself and then asked me to make a decision. You know, is it the old view or the new I'm not
waffling? | just forgotten what | said. The first time and | processed it down a different path and in my brain, and we
both would work because there's no right or wrong. The challenge is, is when someone like a, Stacy’s coming in and
trying to organize your business so that it is done a particular way. So you can produce a consistent result, there has
to be a final decision that this is the process and some form of a process for modifying the process. Okay, our US
Constitution was like, Okay, this is the foundation of our government, and there is a process for updating it. Of

course, we ignore the process and look at the chaos it creates in the world. Yeah, right. And you if you don’t want
() Scott Florida 43:32

Okay. All right.

®) Staci Gray 43:34

But you don't have a CRM yet. You can just do it in a neck, you can do it. With me, you can put your form, check with
Mauricio, but you can put your form in whatever fashion you do, but you can also just track your ID in a spreadsheet.
| think we talked about that other call recently.

&) Scott Florida 43:52

Yeah. Yeah, for sure. We, we, in order in building the forum, we grabbed one from the poor, you know, the forum there
that Mauricio had posted. So we got some of the questions seem pretty simple to put together. But just how we

collect that data was more. What | was asking is that, you know,

C) Russ 44:15

| mean, I've just this is a sales question. Okay, so we had a situation one time where | hired a friend of mine to be our
tech guy. And one of the things that we instituted in our seminar business was surveys as you've been if you've been
to one of our seminars, you know, we survey and so they concluded that it was more efficient to send us a Scantron
so we handed everybody a number two pencil, and, you know, a form that they could fill in, and we got almost no
participation. It was a complete train wreck. And so even though it was on paper more efficient, it was completely
dehumanized. The entire Hire thing that Robert and | worked so hard to build in an event, right? And this was to me
this right? Because Robert is the host, he’s the guy that creates these environments. And | was kind of coming in as
an operational person trying to clean things up and was trying to take it to the next level. So, you know, my advice is
the best way to fill out a questionnaire is face to face, having a conversation with somebody and letting them know,
hey, I'd like to really get to know you and document it for the file. So that we're both very clear about where you are
and are not interested in where you are and are not willing to do and what kind of deals | should bring to you and
which ones would be a waste of your time. And so | don't want to stick my nose too far in your business. If | ask
anything that you don't feel comfortable with, | will not be offended if you tell me that you're not comfortable
answering the question, that's absolutely fine. The other thing you should know is that | have deals that only | can
only bring to accredited investors. And so let me explain to you what accredited is. And if you want to tell me that
you're accredited, | will take your word for it. But at the point of doing the deal, I'm going to have to ask you to
document it, either through a CPA letter or through a third party service, | don’t have to see your personal financials,
that's not my business. But some of the questions | am going to ask are going to have to do with suitability to help
you make a better decision, I'm not telling you what to do, and | won't prevent you from doing anything you want to
do. But with that said, there, there may be times if you decide you want to put too much money in a single deal, |
may reject it, or some of it, you know, so if you tell me that you have $500,000, investable, and you want to put 400
into one deal, I'm probably going to turn that down, I'm going to ask you to pare it down to something more like
100,000 and wait for me to bring you another deal. Right, it’s for your safety and mine, | expect every deal | do to be
profitable. But I'm not God. And things happen. And so | would not want to be responsible for putting you in a
situation where you had were overexposed to any one deal, no matter how great it is. And your commitment is to not
be mad at me. If that deal that you wanted to put 400,000 in, I'll let you put 100,000 and turned out to be a 80%
ROI home run, right? We all hope that's going to happen. But the opposite could happen. So you know, live to fight
another day. And what you're doing by doing that is you're making it human, you're letting them know you're a
professional, you're telling them that you care much more about them and the relationship and their well being than
ahead of time Hey if I'm going to be acquiring a deal | need to have my lender involved the fundraiser the seller you
know these are all the people that need to be involved in order for this process to go from entering the process to
exiting the process. Okay,

© Russ 29:36

| mean just imagine yourself you're out there you're turning over rocks you find a deal and you say okay this deal
looks good I'm going to act and you get it under contract with you know whatever little out you need right no hard
money you have your your your due diligence period, and then you you know, rather than like okay now | got a lot to
do you just call your deal team up and say okay, we got a deal. Everybody run and they know what to do. Right?
Right, the bookkeeper starts putting together the documents and maybe has a consultation with the loan guy to find
out exactly what they need to have your due diligence team goes to work on underwriting the deal and verifying the
rents if it's an income producing property, and the property tax rolls and, and any, you know, viewed, viewing the title
report ordering the appraisals, whatever it is, but everything starts to happen. And the other thing is, is when you
have people that you don't have either a high level of trust in their ability to get the thing done, because there's
going to be people that you know, like, | know, if | give something to Stacey, it’s done, | don't have to think about it, |
don't carry it on a to do list somewhere, | just give it to her. And | know that it's going to come back, right, you want
to have a bunch of people like that, unfortunately, a lot of people aren't like that. And so they need to be held
accountable. And so these processes have to have a process owner, that might not be the process duer, but they're
the person who holds the people accountable. So if your bookkeeper is the person who's handling getting the
financials together, and you trust that person, then their job is to make sure that the loan broker is following up and
getting you what you need. Right? Rather than have you have to try to hold 12 people in a process accountable. You
only have like one person, whoever the whoever the deal manager is runs the whole thing. And so you say, Well, I'm
small right? Now, | don't have to operate like that. No, you don’t. But you what you have to do is design your business,
with every seat accounted for, even if your budget is in every single seat, and then your mission as you figure out how
you can afford it. And where, you know, when the right people come along, and depending on what just you
absolutely hate or suck at, you know, then you're going to try to replace yourself in those seats as quickly as possible.
And the quicker you get that thing organized, at least to a level may not be perfect, but good enough that it’s at
least when you hand it off, it’s done as good or better than when you were doing it. And then let them improve it
through whatever the process is for improving processes. Right, so that so that you don't end up with a business that
knows how to run itself, but you don't know how to run it. And then everybody walks out the door, because they don't
like the way you cut your hair. Oh, sorry. Anyway. And you know, and then all sudden, you can't operate your
business. | had that happen to me once. That's why I’m anal about documentation, backups, training, standard
operating procedures, and all of that, and having the one person who | absolutely trust in charge of all that and that

Stacy.

@) Scott Florida 32:46

Okay. Make sense?

© Russ 32:49

Yeah, it's a lot less complicated when you don't have to figure out all the weeds on your own. Right? Yeah, at the
transition from, from being a jack of all trades, master of none, and so many things to do, to having it all organized
and running. That's that's what it is to go from being an ass in the cashflow quadrant to a true B. And Tom
wheelwright, or any of them will tell you, and I'll tell you, it is the absolute hardest transition to make. But well, you
know, it's the hardest transition to make. And that's what this this is all about is how do you how do you make that

transition? Part of the reason it's difficult is because you have to bootstrap but this business, you don't have to
not maybe losing out on a deal because it wasn't planned ahead.

© Russ 08:09

Yeah, so so if you have say for example, every time you do a deal you know and you're just you're at the at the if
you're dealing in your own account as an individual investors and you're going to do a deal, then you're probably
going to do a consultation with your asset protection person, with your tax person and with your lending person. And
those people are all more or less near you sometimes the lender is where the property is. You may be having
discussions with your property manager or a GC if there’s rehab involved or whatever course you broker, sometimes
you get everybody on a call together sometimes you get people that are kind of part of a process together. Like if
you're trying to figure out the financial thing, okay, maybe | need my, my tax person and my mortgage person
together my bookkeeper to try to figure that out, what's my balance sheet look like? What is my documentable
income look like, you know, what does it need to look like? You know, so I'm a big fan of planning your approach. So
you know, the first thing | tell a young person in quote unquote how to get started in real estate investing is to
understand that your credit is your number one asset. And the most important person on your team in the beginning
is going to be your loan broker. So what you want to do is you want to go meet with that person and say here, here's
who | am. And here's what I'm planning on doing. My goal is to get Fannie and Freddie out, | want to own between
10 and 40 units, residential one to four. And | need somebody to help manage me from newbie with a virgin credit
score to to maxing out and then when | do max out, I'm going to go recruit my friends or maybe along the way,
recruit my friends and use their credit and | will strip equity out of my properties, more loans, and | will use those as
downpayment. tends to partner with my credit partners who aren't maxed out yet. And | will continue. | mean, if
you're really in the in the residential one to four space now you're, you're you're bidding on this person's attention not
with your actual business, but on your promise on your vision, and your pledge of loyalty. And what you're asking
them to do is coach you up. If you're moving from residential, to commercial, you have to go find a great commercial
broker. And of course, commercial divides up | mean, guys that do farmland are different than people that do
churches are different than people who do construction are different than people who do apartments versus people
who do industrial, or whatever. So you kind of have to have an idea what your niche is going to be. And then you go,
you go look, so you know, that's a conversation where maybe it's you and your bookkeeper with the loan person,
having a discussion about what your current financial situation is, and what it needs to be in order for you to do
whatever it is you have in mind. The beautiful thing in syndication Scott is when you come up short, and you realize,
oh, shoot, I'm missing something, | don't have enough ballast on my balance sheet, | don't have enough income, my
credit score is too low, whatever it is, anything can be syndicated. If there’s enough meat on the bone, you give up a
piece of the deal to get somebody who has what you need to the table. Okay, and then the best thing you do to
protect yourself as you plug them into your team, so that somebody who has your back mutual pledge of loyalty is
looking at that person's financials and you know, your your bookkeeper, your tax person, your loan person, so that
you, you know, you may not be looking at it directly, but you've got insight, if there's a big bomb in there that, you
know, everybody's gonna want to get away from, right? To make sense.

© Scott Florida 11:52

Yep, | think so. It sounds like there's the team's got to be built out. And there is a place in which you're gonna have to
just pony up on some more investment in the team itself at the beginning, if you don't have any of those resources,
because the other piece of the puzzle for me is | don’t want to get spend 20 hours with a lender and have them walk
away on compensated if something went wrong with the deal, or we weren't able to finish or something. You know,
it's it's so

© Russ 12:24
