JO

51:24

When you put it against the median income, it hasn't gone up either. And then when it
when you add in the interest rates for that years versus the mean income, it's even less.
So? How does that how like, it is a harder for people to afford, and we are hearing
affordability crisis. But when you're seeing the numbers, and the numbers are affordable,
when they're compared to something real, what are we seeing, they're just like a complete

affordability across the map.

Russ 51:55
Probably in the market, that that’s happening, and it's going to be supply and demand. So

you know, when people say there's an affordability crisis, well, what's driving the prices?
Well, there's no availability of inventory. So the available inventory is being bid up. Okay,
now, that may not show up in a long term chart, you know, because again, what's
average, you get your foot in a pot of boiling water and your foot in the other foot in a
bucket of ice water, and on average, you're comfortable in the real world, not so much.
Right? So there is no such thing as like an average market. So you have to look at your
own individual market and try to figure out, you know, what's going on. And the other
thing is, is you have to look at the other components of the cost of living, because wages
or incomes might be the same nominally. But what are real wages looking like? Whether
that's taxes, whether that's the CPI, whether that's the cost of food and energy, which
aren't included in the CPI, but try living your life without them? Pretty tough. Right? So and
then, depending on where you get your, your CPI stat, right, Shadow stats is a guy who
looks at it based on the, the way it was originally created in the 80s. And the new index
has been adjusted to my opinion, and | think the general consensus of anybody paying
attention to manipulate the inflation down. So if the CPI is already overheated, you can
bet the real world inflation is a hell of a lot worse than that. And | think anybody who's out
in the real world knows that. So | think that when you have these affordability
conversations, you have to, as | said, at the top of the the meeting with Scott is you have
to you have to, first of all baseline where the person is looking, what their perspective is,
what what, what do they already understand, what are they thinking, where are they
coming from? And then you have one of the major paradigms you got to break is this idea
that real estate is an asset class that any of these national averages mean, anything
important in the real world? They don't. | mean, the people who are making policy, look at
them, because that's all they know. But there is a big gap between those averages. And
that's why the water, and | give credit to Robert Helms who taught it to me, he probably
stole it from somebody, I'm sure because Robert has just amazing repertoire of stuff that
he's picked up, but it's just a great way to explain it. And then you explain that to

somebody and say, okay, so somewhere, you know, there there's something in between
Russ 22:51

Yeah, even on the Jacksonville field trip, what | did in some of the copy that | wrote for the
promotion going out, and some of the things we talked about, is you know, we met with
the property managers, and they've been pushing the rents, they've been able to push the
rents. Okay, so that's anecdotal, okay, whatever is going on in that market, the property
managers in the real world are having success pushing the rents, okay, when | looked at
the days on market, | could see that the market was having no problem absorbing
inventory, because in 2016, it was, you know, over two months, and when we got there, it
was about three weeks or so. And yet, at the same time, Jacksonville had been one of the
top areas for new building permits, which meant lots of new inventory was coming on. And
so you just go back and say, okay, where's this demand coming from, and you looked at
the migration patterns, and clearly people are moving in. And so the local, you know,
Chamber of Commerce, and people who keep track of the local stats can tell you a little
bit about the businesses and the people that are coming in coming out. And so you just
have to kind of look at that it's all part of your market. underwriting is just kind of knowing
what the story of the market is, and what the trend of the market is. But you know, when
you go into the costs themselves, you say, you know, if the market through its absorption
is telling you, there's an inventory problem, and headlines have been screaming inventory
problems all over the place, especially in affordable housing. And then you add to that the
millennial generation that Yeah, because of student debt and other factors, maybe a little
late to joining the homeownership party, they're still joining, and there's still a ton of them.
And then, of course, in certain markets like Florida, that we talked about that | think you're
going to be beneficiaries of people’s newfound freedom Hey, | can make a living | don't
need to work in Boston or Chicago or New York. Or you know, | can | can live someplace
more affordable, warmer, less sales tax or less less income tax. | can take a pay cut still
increase my standard of living in increased my savings. like Wow, that's a win win. And |
think, you know, we're seeing some of that, because those are those are concepts that you
have to go validate is that happening at the ground level. The market where I'm at. But
the other thing is to look at is the components of cost, energy, energy going up or down.
Energy is going up. Well, energy is a component of costs for everything. Which means
certain tenants are going to be squeezed before it makes its way through. At some point,
it starts to make its way through and their wages were reflected to their real wages might
not go up, but their numerical wages will their nominal wages. Right? | mean, you know, |
don't know, I'm the old man, probably on this call. But you know, | remember when making
$100,000 year was a big deal. It was a big deal. Not anymore. That's like middle class. It's
poverty. It’s below the poverty line. In in San Francisco, | think you have to make like 150
or 1000 or more to even just be considered like, at the bottom of being able to support
yourself, right. So those are just numbers. So real wages have been falling, and people
move around to find quality lifestyles for less money. So they're going to be markets that

are going to be winners and markets that are going to be losers. But But you at the macro
JO

because they could print anything and make it a headline, and try to impact people's
understanding. And then they would not allow comments where people who knew better
or had a counterpoint would be able to post a comment, and they do it all in the name of
safety. Well, the problem with safety is the flip side of safety is lack of freedom. You get,
you don't get as many ideas when people are trying to keep you safe from other people's
ideas. So I’m not as big a fan, | use those sources. But what | do is | find the original source,
usually in alt media, reading comments, and people are sharing information, | find great
stuff in there, then | go research it, don't be too quick to share something you haven't
looked into. And then if you can back it up with mainstream, then use the mainstream. So
you know, in this case, you might not use Zero Hedge you might go to where it shows data
trek research, which is where they found it. | went ahead and just use Zero Hedge because
| was lazy and in hurry. And | don't often do that. And so | think | can get away with it once
in a while. Okay, so there's all that. Let's see. And so we have all kinds of stuff going on in
the chat. | almost feel like we had to leave all this good stuff in the chat in when we put
this on the platform so people have access to it. | see if | can figure out how to do that.
Okay, what else? Anybody Have a question because those are the things | had on my
mind. Excuse me, and | don't see anything else popping up. What have you guys seen in
the news that's got you scratching your head? Or what are you talking about? Are you
using the news in your conversations? Or in developing your investment thesis in any way?

Please don't feel obligated to all go at once.

50:23

Back to what Scott was talking about, on the single family bill, the rents and the pricing
going up? And does it still work and things like that? Scott, maybe we're talking about, you
know, rents. Maybe the numbers work or the numbers aren't working yet, or the rents
gonna catch up. And that's a little soeculative. But as far as the pricing goes in
affordability, you know, we keep hearing that there's an affordability crisis, and then also
have a theory, whether it's inflationary or not. | ran that shot like a soreadsheet on
median home prices, and based it on like gold. And it’s actually a lot. | mean, even the

high price that we're seeing, as far as median home prices that have been sent out by like,

Russ 51:06

Did you say you ran it against gold? against like, price of an ounce of gold? Yeah, yeah.
Well, of course. So yeah. | mean, that's, that’s the whole point of using gold, right? Sound
money, you realize houses really haven't gone up that much. Right. And, you know, $1 has

fallen.
I'm not interested in those people in my properties is probably more likely the case. Is that
going to have an impact on prices? | don't know, on rents? | don't know. | mean, we'll
continue to watch it doesn't seem at first blush like it would. But it’s a story that's
interesting to pay attention to. The other one is we just added a faculty member to secrets
of successful syndication. Since we're not trying to recruit you to attend beyond being an
SMC member, you probably don't get the promos. But we just did an interview with him
and it'll be the next podcast after this one. And his name is Steve streetman. And he wrote
a book called cryptocurrency in real estate. And his background is really interesting. He's
a data scientist and cryptographer with expertise in cryptography worked for a
government agency to do computer code and all that, like super secret stuff. So super
smart guy 2004 read Rich Dad Poor Dad got the real estate bug and started real estate
investing. Through rich dad he discovered us and, and through us, he discovered Gene
greeno and got involved in residential assisted living. He also discovered through Kiyosaki,
a guy named Wayne Palmer. And Wayne turned out to be a bad guy poster child for Ponzi
scheme. | don't think he turned started out to be a bad guy. | think he was a guy with a big
ego. And when he got into trouble because he had a bad model, rather than fixed the
model, he doubled down on stupid until it blew up and he got in a lot of trouble. We don't
talk about that a lot publicly. But we were kind of right there watching it all as it was
unfolding and was not pretty. So but Wayne wrote in Kiyosaki his book The real book of
real estate, which was Kiyosaki his comeback book. So as he saw the real estate
marketplace, falling apart, heading into the 2008 crisis coming out of it, when he decided
it was time to get back in he convened a number of experts to write a book called The real
book of real estate. And in that book, Wayne wrote a chapter about exchanging. And |
don't know that anybody on this call was with us back in, | think 2011, where we did the
cowboy exchange on the ship. But that famous story, if you've heard it, of me, walking
onto the ship with a $20 copy of creature from Jekyll Island, signed by G. Edward Griffin, in
walking out with 100 ounce bar of silver, valued at that time at $33 an ounce did it all
through a creative trade. And so it's creative real estate at a very high level. So he’s been
involved in that for over a decade. And through doing that, what happened is he ended
up getting in deals that were structured with cryptocurrency. Now I've been paying
attention to crypto for a while trying to get my mind around it. But his book really
enlightened me got me to understand it. And | was so in there | have to literally read it on
the way out to the Jacksonville field trip and | consumed the whole thing before | landed
and it was all highlighted and flagged tape flagged and first thing | did when | got back
was calling. We had a conversation that went well. We set up to do an interview with him
which Robert and | recorded yesterday and then we invited him to to be at secrets of
successful syndication because at the same time all this was happening last week if you
saw the headlines The second largest mortgage lender in the country has just decided
they're going to accept Bitcoin. And so, real estate and cryptocurrency are ona collision

course in a lot of different ways the blockchain is useful for creating safe contracts. And
handling the transactional side and the documentation side of real estate, even right

down to the property insurance or property title insurance. aspect. cryptocurrency can be
used as an asset in creative real estate deals, not talking about selling the crypto and
buying dollars and then doing the real estate but it’s actually making crypto part of the
exchange part of the deal. So there's that if you've listened to the show with Michael flight,
who's a syndication mentoring club member, | believe. Michael 30 year background in
retail real estate used his use crypto used his portfolio to create a securitized token. And
so when you buy his token, you're effectively buying shares in his real estate. That's a form
of syndication. And these you should go back and listen to that. Listen to that episode
with Michael flight and understand how he's used it in syndication. So and obviously,
there's a lot of Bitcoin, millionaires and billionaires out there, you know, one of them is this
gal Courtney, who was our blockchain babe that Robert called her on the summit. But she
housewife married to a cop, | believe, or a firefighter. And he got interested in crypto and
made some investments. And next thing you know, you know, just like Jed Clampett, and
I'm not saying that she’s unsophisticated, in a way, but you know, the next thing, you
know, "old Jud's a millionaire”. And next thing, you know, she's a crypto millionaire. And so
now she's interested in taking some of her crypto wealth and learning real estate. So she's
a crypto millionaire, who wants to learn how to do real estate. So that's an interesting
perspective. Michael Flight was a real estate investor, 30 year real estate investor, he uses
crypto to syndicate his portfolio. Steve is a guy a data scientist turned real estate investor
who got very active and creative real estate that really understands how crypto is going
to impact real estate deal making and real estate transactions. And that that's basically
inevitable. And the fact that the second largest mortgage company in the country, US
mortgage just said that they are by the end of the year going to be accepting Bitcoin and
payment tells you that that convergence is happening right before our eyes. So Robert,
and | felt like it was really important for us to begin to bring our audience and especially
our inner circle and syndication, mentoring club members into that conversation, so that
you can be on the front end of it, because the way it’s going to be presented at SMC ora
sauce is that is that once you have your mind around it, that's going to potentially open
up new avenues of capital investment capital for you. And you'll be less hesitant to

engage in conversation with crypto people, you'll know what you're talking about. So |
think that that’s the news that you should really be paying attention to. | certainly am.
And we're going to be bringing it to you. A couple of things going on in here. Can you
count crypto on your balance sheet? Yes, I'm having | had a meeting with Stephanie and
Mike pine, the other day who are the core team of our strategy group and Steve, I'm
integrating into the Strategy Group along with Damien Lupo and Kevin de who's already
there. And they're all working together. And I'm working with them to develop financial
strategies investment strategies are you know, that we take into account each other's
disciplines, and we're adding crypto to the mix. In fact, one of the things that he mentions

in the book, which | think is super interesting, and | haven't had a chance to get into detail
capacity to pack and it's completely regional. | mean, I'm sitting here in Gilbert, Arizona at
the moment, which wallethub just Listed is | think the number three best real estate
market in the country, a subset of the Greater Phoenix market, which is one of the
greatest real estate markets in the country, which is a subset of Arizona, which is one of
the fastest to top three fastest growing states in terms of population. Why? Because
California sucks, and everybody's coming from Southern California, into Arizona, baby
boomers are aging, they're retiring from the cold and they're coming here, they're pushing
the prices up. Of course, inside the market, what we see happen is the people that get bid
up in the best markets, you get a gentrification in the locals who aren't bringing the big
equity from a highly appreciated state, they're not bringing a bunch of stock options or
retirement. And so they have to move out to the to the suburbs. And so there's, there's
tertiary markets, if you will, secondary and tertiary markets to the to the primary markets
that people want to move into that to get bid up. I'm in one of the markets, it's getting bid
up. And | know that the people who were here before me are having to move out to where
the new supply is. And so there's opportunities in the development and building that new
supply. There's opportunities and rehabbing older properties in the hot area, there's
potentially the opportunities to create to create additional inventory or, you know,
affordable inventory like multifamily, or the build to rent model. We're very, very high on
right now. And that ties into a question that somebody else asks. So you know, the, it's still
real estate, it's still location, location, location, but | break it down supply, demand and
capacity to pay and look at your market, look at your demographic. And then again,
answering the question, What do you bring your investors depends on your investors, and
it depends on the problem you're trying to solve for them. So as you are in every one of
you, | will say this, | say this every single time, you don't need to have a deal. You don't
need to have anything, you just have to go out there and start talking to people and and
finding out what they're thinking, what they're worried about what they’re dreaming of.
Maybe what they have to work with what they're doing now that they like, what they're
what they what's missing. And you start to just build profiles. And you get to know your
network. This is a relationship business. It's not a mass marketing business. | mean, if you
really think about it, even Robert and | were generally we're more on the mass marketing
side, because media and all that. But how many of you do | have a personal relationship
with? A lot? How many do | know about your personal situation? A lot, not my whole
audience. But that net brings people who have to swim through the the barriers to entry
to get into a relationship with Robert and | and then we get to have these conversations.
And so you have the same thing, not everybody you're going to talk to you're going to
want to do business with and that's okay. You're going to meet some people, you're going
to say | didn't think I'd be interested in these kind of people, but actually like them. | mean,
that's what happened to us. When we went into the gold community. And the freedom
community, we didn’t know, we just knew that the real estate community we were in had

been devastated. We needed a new pond deficient, where was the money where were
still working through in the Casa Grande area. And so just trying to get my head around

some of those things.

Russ 16:02

Yeah. So this goes back to the idea is, are we in a bubble? And because prices have gotten
to bubble levels? Or what what was the bubble last time a lot of people think, well, the
price is alone, an indication of bubble. And depending on who you're talking to, you have
to talk to them in ways that they understand. If they're paper, acid investors, hopefully
they know what price to earnings ratio is. Right? Hopefully, they understand that there is
theoretically, a relationship between the fundamental performance of the company and
its stock price. Now, the fact that that relationship probably doesn't exist, it’s it's all

become spec. It’s become the greater fool theory, and how do you how do you know,
because the PE ratios have gotten to be so high. And in some cases, non existent, right? |
was in the dot com bubble back in the day, and if you had .com, after your name, you had
a great stock price, even if you didn't even have a product or revenue. And they'd go
public with just a story. Tesla, yeah. And there was a lot of a lot of that going on, only a
few of those like Amazon survived. The rest of them, you know, didn’t survive. And a lot of
them didn't care because they took their founder stock and sail off and never had to
deliver on the promise. So | think that, you know, the first thing you just have to kind of
understand when you're talking to somebody is what's their paradigm. And then if they're
coming from a paper paradigm, they're dealing with a commodity asset, meaning it's the
same price on every market everywhere around the world. There's no inefficiencies, there's
no niches, there's no nuances, it’s a commodity chain, exchanging hands in a price
discovery area, where despite, you know, the complaints about manipulation, all of which
are to the upside, by the way, there's not really a way to have a competitive advantage.
And that's why you see companies investing in, you know, extreme technology to gain a
nanosecond, these high frequency traders, you know, they have the best internet, they
have the fastest computers, they're, you know, and all of that is just to be able to front run
the market by milliseconds, when real estate is completely the opposite. Right? It's not a
perfect market. | mean, somebody says, | got 10 offers on my house. Yeah, out of like, you
know, you know, 10 million investors in the country and however many investors around
the world and you get 10 offers, how perfect is that market, highly imperfect, very
imperfect. And then you have the ability to negotiate the price in the transaction. So, and
then, of course, the product itself is unique right down, as we've said many, many times on
the show, right down to the street. Even two houses on the same street are not exactly the
same, depending on their history, condition, modifications, owner motivation or seller
motivation. | mean, the list goes on and on. So | think when you understand that you can't,
you can't have that same level of bubble talk. Now with that said, Can inordinate amount

of money be piling in and can markets get overheated? residential? Yes. Why? Because
that could just be me. Anyway, so in an unsound money environment, which is clearly what
we have, the currency is doomed to collapse, which it is. That’s what inflation is. It’s a
symptom of that. And so of course, we know equity happens, right? If you can control an
asset that is going to go up, denominated in dollars, but you fix your acquisition with debt,
which isn't going to go up denominated in dollars, then you're effectively short the dollar.
So inflation is not a problem for real estate investors that know what they're doing. It's
actually a boon. The question is, do we have, you know, what's inflation? And so, rising
prices is that inflation? | say no. On the summit, if you recall, | showed the whale coming
out of the water. See, there's all kinds of innovation, efficiencies, technological investment,
productivity gains, that never show up in price, because they push prices down. What
inflation does is prevent prices from going up, when they should be going down. So if the
price doesn't move, you can still have inflation. Because the dollar is worth less, it’s just
that the productivity gains that should have gone to the consumer to the business owner
and to the worker, are just absorbed by the inflation and the beneficiaries of that inflation.
So it’s a giant wealth transfer system. The other thing is, we're in this big supply demand
thing right now. | mean, | think there was an article the other day that talked about how
the container ships are all stacked up, right, because it’s a one way trip. They send their
containers here full of stuff, we offload it and consume it, and we don't send anything
back. So the containers just sit just like with the airlines, you know, you get those $29
flights to go from slow town to major hub, because they need the airplane back at the
major hub, and they got to drop the price to where somebody will just go on just, you
know, take a flyer, I'll just go ahead for 29 bucks, shoot, I'll just go because | can. It says
same kind of concept. So if you have these temporary disruptions, and some you have to
decide what's transitory, what's not transitory, if you've got if you've got factories that are
offline because of COVID, and you believe COVID is going to abate, and those factories
are going to open back up again, then that supply chain disruption is transitory. Now,
whether it lasts a year, week, a month, | mean, you'd have to look at this specific supply
chain. And that supply demand imbalance can cause prices to go up. But that's not
inflation, that's supply and demand. if interest rates were to go up, or lending were to
seize, then that would be de leveraging or easy money, right? Either money, either credit is
going to get tied or expand. That's not inflation. Inflation is just more currency floating
around in the system than production of goods and services. And then when you look at
inflation, one of the things you have to consider is it getting out of the system. If you
watched George Gammons videos, which | encourage you to do, and you understand the
reserves, the bank reserves, then you realize that they print a bunch of money and they
lock them up in the bank reserves. They don’t make it into the general economy. Right
now you have the federal government spending gobs of money that does get out in the
general economy and you're seeing it. So you do have to have a little bit of a macro
education to kind of understand a little bit about what's going on. But then when it comes

to looking at specific real estate, it still comes down to the basic supply, demand and
it's still going on in the internet. But it’s gotten personal now. But you're reacting to
something that they responded to after you put the bait in the water. So use the news that
way. And be curious to find those of you who are doing that. Maybe in future calls or a
community call. You guys can have a conversation about that. And somebody who really
starts to do a great job with it. Maybe we can even get to do some type of presentation in
an SMC meetup or do a module. But | think | think that, you know, the news is a very
useful tool. And you guys are obviously interested because we got pretty good turnout. So
with that, | think I'll end it. And thank you all for being here. And bring your questions and
bring your articles and we'll just keep the rally going. Really, really love it. Thank you so
much basis
Ben 00:52

Oh, I'm so sorry. | was trying to pull it up from okay.

© Russ 00:55

So you quoted a Zero Hedge article about how the "US home prices rise at the fastest
pace on record”. And your question was asset classes that may benefit wasn't really a
question. It was an implied question asset questions that may benefit from the current
inflationary environment? So are you asking, you know, where, like, like real estate product
niches? Generally speaking, if someone if you're talking to somebody about their portfolio,
what's going to be the winners and the losers? And what's going on?

© Ben 01:25

Yeah, so sorry, to really reset, but | had two primary questions that was one of them. And
one was with the inflationary environment that we're seeing. And talking with Doug
Duncan, you've got rents. His proposition was that rents are a 12 month lag or to asset
inflation, often, at least in real estate. And it seems like that the environment is going so
fast, that it's kind of hard to keep up. And then you got the eviction moratoriums. And so it
almost feels like that. It's just sit on the sidelines. And so I'm kind of just curious what folks
are thinking about with this environment as far as asset classes that they like? Are they
still doing single family rentals? Are they are they still interested in apartments? There's so
an open ended question. And | probably needed to think about it a little bit more clearly.

frame this nicely.

© Russ 02:23

What what problem are you trying to solve? Let's work backwards from that.

© Ben 02:28

Yeah. So | am trying to solve what products do | want to offer my investors given the

challenges, especially that I'm seeing in our single family rentals in the next 12 months?

& Russ 02:44

Okay, so I'm going to kind of clarify the question a little bit. And it's a great question. And
it's a great concept. And it really ties into your own investing thesis. And what is your

responsibility? What hat are you wearing? So if you say, Well, what | want to offer my
level, energy goes into everything. Okay, well, energy is going up and energy is going up,
not just because of inflation, but because the first thing our new administration did was
shut down all of the production that made us the, you know, the world's top oil producer
and drove oil costs down because of excess supply. Now, we're on the other side of that,
you know, if you saw the news, the administration had to go ask the OPEC, please
produce more oil, because prices are going up and my constituents are pissed. What the
hell did you think was gonna happen when you shut off all that production, but that, you
know, so policy matters, you don't have to like it, you can like it, you can say, hey, it’s good
for the environment, | believe in the environment, okay. But it's still going to have an
impact on the cost of energy. And so whether you support it or don't support it, for other
reasons, other than economic reasons, at the end of the day, that’s the impact. And that’s
not just theory, it's happening. You look at the price of commodities, lumber, copper steel.
Now, some of that is to supply chain disruptions. Some of that is inflation. And so you
have to kind of get your mind around that one of the things that we did at the
Jacksonville field trip is we got a chance to spend time talking to people that are
negotiating contracts to buy those raw materials, because it's a builder developing a lot of
houses. And the lumber costs have started to abate a little bit happy about that. But
that's something that goes in so those when those components of costs exist, a product is
not coming to market, unless it can hit that number. Right, the development will stop.
Well, what happens when development stops, new supply stops, what what happens

when there's inadequate supply in the face of demand? prices go up. Okay, so now in
between you have shrink inflation, right? The idea that, that if you if you've read our stuff,
going this goes way back 10 years, I've been talking about the damn ebb and flow. When |
say damn ebb and flow, do you know what I'm talking about? Okay, so quickly, what
happens is, is when they create a bunch of currency, that's inflation. It as people realize
what's happening, and they get out of dollars, they protect themselves by going into
commodities. Because commodities are universal commodities are safe. So they do that.
And then from there, it goes it you know, that cost of the commodities bring up the cost of
producing the goods. And but before that happens, well, it makes the cost of the goods
going up. But before the producers of the goods can pass the price increase along to their
customers, they absorb it, they dam it up. And so they take a lower profit margin until they
can't take the pain anymore, and then they pass the prices on, okay? And then when the
wholesalers get it, they do the same thing. And they dam it up. And then they can't they
pass it on to the customer and the customer gets it. Now the customers are seeing rising
prices, and all sudden they Damn it up and they take you know, lower, discretionary
spending goes away, and people feel the squeeze, and then they start to bitch and moan
and pretty soon, wages start to go up. wages go up. Now people can spend more money
nominally on real estate. It takes a long time for the inflation to make its way to real
estate, terms of rents. And but but we're seeing it and this is something I've been talking

about for 10 years. You can see it coming but you have to be patient because this is not
day trading this. This takes time. And so one of the things that's happening in the
development world that we've been covering on the show for two or three years is the is
the move in the building industry towards builder Rent. there’s not as many homeowners,
there's more renters. And we need to build, but we can't build for homeowners because
the market won't let us get the prices we need. So now we're going to cater towards
building specifically for investors, which means we can value engineer these products for
price. And if you're dealing with a right build to rent developer, they're going to engineer it
for ownership. That's what we love about suncoast. And what they're, you know, and what
they're doing out there in Jacksonville, is they engineer these things, not just to sell at the
right price, but to because they do the property management, they're very interested in
making sure that the landlord, the owner, the buyer, you will, is happy on the back end.
And that in the way you do that is by building a property that is durable, where it matters.
You might think well, granite countertops and a rental property. That doesn't make any
sense seems like a luxury item. Yeah, but yeah, granted is durable as heck right? You put
laminate in there. And the first time they iron their shirt on the because because that's
what tenants do, they iron right on the right on the countertop, they burn the laminate,
you got to replace it, right? It didn't happen with granite. And they use the pho wood
flooring, that's vinyl, it looks really really nice, but it's durable as can be you're not dealing
with carpet, you're not dealing with hardwood, you're not dealing with tiles that are going
to crack, you know, and just just the list goes on and on and on. And I'm not qualified but
but that that's a concept. So so you're seeing them kind of damage or shrink inflation by
creating a single family house, you know, and attendant doesn't care. | mean, they look
for a three bedroom house, they don't care if the bedrooms are 110 square feet or 90. They
just how many bedrooms, a homeowner might care. But a tenant largely doesn't. And so
you can have, when you're talking about cost per square foot, you can bring that square
footage down and still have a three or four bedroom house for rent that pulls a certain
amount of rent. And the list goes on and on and on. So when you start to demonstrate
some of that practical, tactical, granular knowledge to your investors and understand why
you pick the products, you pick in the markets you pick, by the time you get that deep into
it, they're gonna differ, they're gonna know, you know, more than they do that you've
done your homework, you know what the heck you're doing. And then you add that, you
know, I'm putting my life energy and maybe my money where my mouth is, | wouldn't be
doing this, you know, and then you affirm your commitment to being in it for the long
haul. So this isn't, you know, a one night stand, I'm going to dip into your pocketbook, and
it's good for me, and I'm sorry, if it didn't work out for you. But you know, and so there's
part of that, okay. So a lot there, but understand the components of cost. And again, you
don't have to figure that out locked in your basement. That's why we do these events.
That's why you have access to these people. You know, and why we talk about the stuff on
the show, and then, you know, you dig in a little bit deeper. But if you're in a serious

conversation with a bill to rent provider, for example, that’s where you're going to source
Olles

Audio September 2021 - Ask the Mentors
Q&A Call on Clues in ...

@ Thu, 9/211:03AM @ 1:06:25

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, rents, inflation, price, market, crypto, real estate, talking, property, deal, investors,

understand, money, syndication, news, question, articles, conversation, robert, happening

SPEAKERS

Russ, Scott Florida, Ben

© Russ 00:01

All right Syndication Mentoring club, this is our September September 1. Starting out the
month with a Clues in the News, ask the mentors and a lot of things going on in the news.
It's just insane. And it's hard to stay focused on the financial side of things with everything
geopolitically going on in the world. And maybe that has some financial ramifications. I'm
not sure. There's definitely some crossover. But today, we have a good group of folks. So
thanks for being here. And we're gonna have a good time. I'm going to see if it doesn't
work that way. Okay. So I'm still learning how to use my zoom in different configurations.
feel like it's chopping my head off here. Maybe that's just me. Okay. Ben Dickey, you're
here right?

© Ben 00:47

where | am.

© Russ 00:48

Okay. So you ask your question.
with him, I'll probably bring it up at the syndication when | see him. Maybe not on stage,
but in an offline conversation, for sure, is the idea that you can rent cryptocurrency to put
it on your balance sheet. Now | know people do that with gold. Big institutions do that
they lease gold. So you don't borrow it. So you don't owe it you just lease it. But first, but
somehow you're able to put that on your balance sheet well into my pea brain. That still
doesn't make sense. But he is probably looked at a deeper than | have and | want to
understand it. And then I'm going to have him collaborate with Stephanie Riley. have her
go check with the underwriting of the mortgage companies and find out how they look at.
And I'll probably get Anton involved in that same thing. And Anton just joined the club to
By the way, you'll be happy about that. So | think that crypto is going to end up being
something that we're going to want to pay attention to. And so we're building a advisory
board that is specifically knowledgeable in crypto, and then adding strategy, which is part
of the advisory board that really understand crypto from a tax perspective, from a

lending and underwriting perspective. And then from a creative getting deal done
perspective, and we'll be doing modules and creating case studies and talking about all
that. But | would encourage you as far as the news, go start paying more attention and
the other and you'll see this | believe come out, you're not gonna see it. It's the next promo
to go out for the syndication event, but for the first time ever in the feds FOMC meeting
notes. The they talked about cryptocurrencies mentioned in the in the meeting notes.
gonna see if | can find the links to those articles. | think it’s this one. Yep, right here. Okay,
so I'm going to quickly just share my screen. Everybody seeing it. This is where those
emails that you get in your inbox, what they look like before they get put into Infusionsoft.
So | write them out the way | want them to look. And here's the headline second largest us
mortgage lender will accept payment in Bitcoin. That was CNBC 820. So just just a week
ago, and then for the first time ever, the FOMC minutes, or were discussing
cryptocurrency, | got that Zero Hedge. | don’t often quote Zero Hedge in the stuff | send to
the main list, but I've been following them a long time, | get a lot of really good stuff for
them. I'd encourage you guys to pay attention to them. Let's see if | can find a way to get
those links. Okay, so here's this article. I'll put it in the chat for you. Sorry, | got two
computer screens going on. having a hard time seeing everything. Now | get to go back to
this article. And I'll get this one. Okay, and I'll stick that in the chat. Okay, and what | yeah,
and there's a Zero Hedge article, okay, stuff this year. Okay, so you guys can take a look at
those articles. One of the techniques, and one of the reasons we wanted to do this
particular ask the mentors, is because | think that it’s very helpful. When you're
communicating to your list, whether you're doing it on your social media, your email blast,
or however, even in conversations, to have a library of third party articles, especially
mainstream third party articles, again, | don't use alternative sources often, because they
don't have the same cachet, credibility with people who don't follow alternative media.
And even though | think mainstream media, everybody pretty much knows is filtered and

has agenda. | mean, you know, when you saw Yahoo, start removing comments, that's
people that tended to be Savers, the types of people that tend to be small business
people, independent people, less inclined to trust Wall Street more inclined to be looking
for alternatives. And so we decided the gold community in the freedom community, those
turned out to be keepers, right? We've been active in those communities for a decade now.
Okay, so a lot of answer. | don't know that | gave you the answer you're looking for. But
you got to figure it out. That's my point. You have to figure it out based you work from your
work from your investors backwards, or you find something that you absolutely believe is
the answer to the problem. And then you go looking for people who have that problem.

That's another way to approach it.

() Ben 13:58

No, this is very helpful. | think what was going through my mind was very similar to what
Scott's talking about, because my list is telling me, "Hey, we want rental properties.”, but
quite frankly, with the properties that I've got, I'm kind of disgusted and tired of dealing
with the court system, trying to get payment, trying, you know, you can't evict. And so, you
know, the other part of the list wants short term rentals. So I'm thinking that sounds pretty

good.

® Russ 14:26

It's pretty good for a couple different reasons. And it's got a big tax benefit that accrues to
people who don't have to be full time investors to take that benefit. So | don't know that
we've done a deal with Mike Pine on that, but he’s really up to speed on it because we've
been working on that with the Strategy Team. So all somebody chat me a message and
just remind me that | want to, | want to get Mike Pine to do an Airbnb or a short term
rental tax module, and we'll get it into a platform. Okay, so that's good. So Scott Florida,
you said you want to talk about build, selling new build single family portfolios in the
environment rising building costs? Do you want to add any color to that before | ramble?

Um,

(S) Scott Florida 15:15

that kind of gives you the idea, | think, kind of along with Ben saying, you know, what's the
mindset? How do we get past the mindset of Oh, no, it’s just not a good time. Because |
think that’s part of what I'm hearing. | see a few things that, you know, are going to be
beneficial. And the inflation piece, you know, is good, | think the like, we're talking about
the local, you know, location being central to that as well. But | just wanted to hear some
thoughts on, you know, how do we communicate, "hey, this is still, you know, beneficial

place to go”. you know, I'm obviously looking at Florida, as a place, but | got a potential
your inventory, or any developer, if you're dealing in new product, they should be able to
help you understand that. If you're dealing in turnkey product, and you know, your The
story is, hey, all the components of this were built 20 years ago, it's built in. So I'm
acquiring it, you know, theoretically at a good price. You know, but it's going to be the
beneficiary of the inflation in the new product because his new product comes out of the
ground, it pulls the old product up with it. Okay, and then just look for news articles and
things that they corroborate what you're saying, validate what you're saying. Okay. All
right. Jeff block says three more years, and I'm out of here, California, | presume? Yeah, |
don't miss it at all. They just keep getting crazier and crazier. Okay. Mike pine to do a short
term rental module. That's great. Okay, so Jeff has a question, or is it just comments going
back and forth? | don't know, Jeff. Is that a question or just just you guys chat chatting
amongst yourselves. | was just, | was just sharing. Okay. All my mind is you're talking Is that
okay? Yeah, that's fine. No, that's great. Okay, that's great. | just want to make sure if you
have a question that we address it because you guys found out if you hand me the mic
and just let me go, I'll go, | go. Oh, good stuff. Roberts always like Shut up. He's not here to
make me Shut up. So | just go. Okay, so there’s something that | noticed in the news that
you're going to see two things. One is the podcast we are just about to release is about
the eviction moratorium, obviously the eviction moratorium was overturned by the
Supreme Court. And we interviewed Ken McElroy, who if you haven't watched his YouTube
video where he went kind of ballistic on the whole eviction moratorium thing, you
probably ought to just listen to that to get your mind around the way up a long time
serious and pretty easy going investor feels about it. Right? Everybody was willing to go
along to get along in the beginning. Okay, if this helps the world, I’m willing to take a bit of
a hit, but now it’s just gotten to the point of ridiculousness. It’s it's basically oppressive, and
it's bankrupting small mom and pop folks. And then we interviewed two attorneys that
work for an organization called Pacific legal foundation. It's a legal property rights
advocate advocacy group. So they're lawyers, but it’s not a law firm. And what they do is
advocate on behalf of people. Property use, you know, like, if you have a property and you
want to build something on it, you're being told you can't build that on it because of, you
know, Tiger-stripe salamander or whatever, you know, or, or you you're not allowed to
access your mineral rights or water rights, or whatever. They take on those cases. And
obviously, this eviction moratorium has been something. So we interviewed two of their
attorneys to talk a little bit about that. And those are again people we met going to
freedom fest years and years ago, and we just have them on from time to time. So that
should be pretty interesting. And | think this eviction moratorium and kind of monitoring,
what is the impact gonna be? Obviously, if if you could have worked it out with a non
paying tenant, as a landlord, you would have, if they're not paying at this point in time,
then you need to get them out. And there's no reason not to, especially if you have
tenants who can take them on. And of course, it's going to mean some people are going

to be displaced. And you know, maybe that's an opportunity, or maybe you decide, hey,
the banks don’t underwrite the property. They underwrite. The borrower and a stupid
borrower with high income and good credit can overpay, you can't do that on multifamily.
Because the multifamily lender is going to underwrite the property. They're going to look
at the income, they're going to make sure there's a debt coverage ratio. Now, yes, a

stupid investor could put in a huge downpayment to get their debt coverage ratio where it
needs to be and being there at 40% LTV, but there just aren't as many stupid investors At
that level, that doesn't mean that people don't buy bad deals. But a lot of times it's
because they, you know, they they are, they go in real thin. And then, you know, don't
have any ballasts to or plant, right, there's no, there's no value add in the property, there's
no chance of increasing the rents, there's no mismanagement to fix, there's no lower
interest rates on the horizon. And the macro of the marketplace isn't gonna give them the
supply, demand push, they need to get the rents up. So they just basically bought in at the
top of the market for that individual property. And that's my point. Right, you have to get
people who are having that objection to understand. Now in the single family space, you
have to look at the fundamentals. What are the fundamentals? Well, affordability is one of
them. So you have to look in your specific marketplace, and how affordable is the house
based on people's ability to pay? Well, there's going to be two parts of that one is going to
be the rents. Because if people can afford to pay the higher rents, they will if the supply
and demand imbalance is there, or the property is competitive in terms of its desirable,
more desirable than its competition, location, condition, quality, management, reputation,
whatever. So you've got you, you've got the rental side. And then if you're using comps, if
you're worried about price, then the comps you know, you have to look at for the owner
occupied, same thing. What are the salaries relative to the to the property's value price?
So, because it doesn't matter what the components of cost are, which we're going to talk
about in a minute. If people can't afford it, they can't afford it. And if you pay a certain
price for a property, because the comps say so but the rents don’t support it, or again, like
the apartment investor, | just literally you have no. What's your plan? | got no plan, right?
It's a brand new property | have, you know, the markets already saturated. | mean, |
what's my plan are, there’s more inventory coming. So you always have to look at supply
demand and capacity to pay, especially when you're looking at at residential. But when

you look at

&) Scott Florida 22:18

So can | ask a question about that. So like, so if you got a situation like that, as I'm, as I'm
trying to prepare this or connect this for somebody, I'm trying to say to them, hey, listen,
here's what people can pay, here's what the rents are. And so laying that information out
to potential investors is going to be a key part for this, you know, conclusion. So despite
what else is going on in the in the market in the in the news, here's the central pieces that

you've got to have.
investors? Well, the answer is, whatever, they will solve their problem. Yeah. And so you
don't know what their problem is. So if you say, Okay, well, | really know my avatar. And
this is the avatar. I'm going after this is their problem. You take a look at Eric Shelley who's
crushing it right. Right now. And you look at Dave Zook, who's crushing it. What are those

two guys have in common?

Ben 03:28

They've go clarity on I'm offering a specific solution for a tax problem. Well, | don’t. I'm
thinking Eric specifically. And he knows his list is segmented to folks, specifically dentist

that have that problem.

Russ 03:44

Yeah. So he knows exactly what ponds he needs to fish in. He knows exactly what bait to
cast. And he knows exactly how to structure his deals. Inner circle members now that we
just had a conversation with Eric who had to tweak his deal structure in order to open it
up and make it more attractive to people with retirement accounts. Because in retirement
accounts, the tax benefit, not the big deal. Right, because the tax shelter already takes
care of it and he wants to attract those funds. So he had to find a way to tweak what he
was doing. Same asset, same basic investment, but he restructured the deal to meet their
need. And my point is, is that the answers to what's going on in the world and news. You
have to look at it through the eyes of the customer, the person your avatar that you are
attempting to serve. Buck Joffrey took a very different approach. He says, Look, | | high
net worth people are just busy making money. And they need the cliff notes. They need
somebody to go open up the markets for them and bring them the deals in a pretty little
bow and make it super simple. And that has to be based on a high level of trust, which
means I've got to have the demeanor and the presentation and the reputation And the
background. And | have to talk directly to their heart. So when they hear me talking, they
know I'm not making it up. | know exactly what it is to be them because I've been them.
Right? And that's his shtick. And Bach is doing great. So when it comes to what's going on
in the market, there are problems. And what's the flip side of every problem? Opportunity!
Sure. You know, | say all the time that there are three basic components that you have to
have to have long term prosperity, you have to have a sound money system, you have to
have private property rights, and you have to have rule of law. If you don't have those
things, then at least if you don't have private property rights, and you don't have rule of
law, there’s no wealth building. Right, the antithesis of private property rights is
communism, where you don't own anything, but you'll be happy. So they say. I'm reading
another Klaus Schwab book right now about how | can't remember he's got the he calls it

the fourth industrial revolution. Every time | see Industrial Revolution, | think "reich"? But
move to California, honey, because they have vaccine mandates, right, because you can
get a maxi vaccine if you want one in a free state. And if you go to one of these, you might
be friendly, states that are a little bit more management intense. You know, then there's,
there’s something to flee. In the in the management, intense state and the overmanaged
state, and there's nothing to flee. You know, unless you're just unless you're the type of
person that is so afraid of the virus, you think that if you have the virus, which protects
you, that all the people who don't have the virus could infect you, which makes no sense
to me whatsoever. But again, I've been probably letting more than my fair share of my
opinion show. But | do think that that it'll affect it'll affect migration to a degree and so
you just have to watch it, pay attention, and a lot of that's going to get covered up
because we know for a fact, this is not conspiracy theory, we know for a fact that there is
absolute censorship when it comes to sharing anything that that shines a negative light
on the vaccines. And so you just have to understand it's gonna be harder for you to find
accurate or verifiable information. You may have to rely a little bit upon anecdotal on
both ends, talk to people who are in a potential market that could be vacating and talk to
people who are on the receiving end of the market. That was an interesting, again, going
back to Jacksonville. Some of the interesting conversations had was with the property
managers about that where people are coming from? Where are all these people coming
from? How are you able to keep pushing rents? How are they absorbing all this inventory,
and they talk about who's coming in. And, you know, it's different because homeowners
are different. Anyway. So | think that would be it, it's become a polarizing issue. So for
anybody that is more inclined to choose more freedom and less safety, it’s going to it’s
going to drive people out, if people are in an environment where they're willing to give up
freedom to have safety. And then | suppose to a degree, people who are willing to give up
freedom to seek safety might choose to move to those places. And it’s just maybe my bias,
but my gut tells me that people are more likely to free flee the, the the high on safety, at
the cost of liberty versus the other way around. But again, like I've been saying, the entire
time, the big theme is, is doesn't really matter what happens at the state level, it matters
what happens at the neighborhood level. Because that's where you're investing at the
neighborhood level, you have to understand the macro C, macro finances, tax interest
rates, right, you have to understand what's going on on the state's aground you like what
goes on in Illinois definitely affects Indiana, because people flee. Flee Illinois, and they go
to Indiana. And so there's been that dynamic. And we've talked about that on the show in
the past, this COVID thing has created stuff. But once you know that kind of that
migration and people moving from one state to another, then you got to dig into the state
and figure out where you got to figure out where those people are actually landing, what
kind of product they're looking for, what kind of amenities they're looking for, what kind of
life experience they're looking for. And where the jobs are, | mean, ultimately, when people
are going to move is some people do have to move for the job, they just say, Hey, I'm out

of here, I'm gonna find a job when | get there. Other people can take their job with them.
Okay, so lots of chatter going on. So that's good, blah, blah, blah. No, okay. All right. So
we're at the top of the hour. So | think rather than have me ramble on or open up to
another question, again, you know, if you do your Think about this, if you've read an
article, or you're, you're like me, and | clip articles every day, and | have a big, big, big, big
folder full of them, | would encourage you to peruse the news, look, for news, you can use,
try to come up with an Angular spin, archive it in a folder somewhere so that you kind of
know where it is, what | do is | email it to myself. And then | usually put down why | think
it's notable, because | don't trust myself to remember when | see it again, that all have the
same inspiration. And then, and then when | want to write a newsletter, or | get involved in
a conversation, or | think, Oh, where did | see that | know where to go look, instead of
having just to go off on another random internet search, which could take me down alll
kinds of rabbit holes | don't have time for. So that way, you can kind of limit how much
time that you are spending perusing the news you allocate, you know, maybe 30 minutes
over coffee in the morning, or even 15. Again, you don't have to read the article, just read
the headline, if it triggers something in you send it to yourself with a quick little note why
you think it's notable. And if you collect two or three articles a day, you know, at the end
of the week, you know, you've got 20 plus articles that you can pull from for talking points
to bolster your investment thesis to research later to share with somebody say, Hey, | saw
this article, | thought of you just to keep your name and face within a value add a lot of
ways you can use the news. And it's not just to feed your own curiosity and intellect, right
use it to build relationships. Because that's really, really, really what this is about building
relationships, building trust, right, building your brand, building your network. It's what it’s
all about. And the news is a great tool to do it. Especially if you act quickly on it, because
it's in front of everybody that's paying attention. And if you add a little bit of context, right,
you're investing your valuable time and sitting here and learning nuances of the news, you
add a little bit of context, all sudden you become you know an Oracle, you become a
source of wisdom. When people are buried in the noise of the world. And after a while they
begin to trust you and differ. And that’s how you can begin to lead them into
understanding your investment thesis and why you pick the markets, the properties, the
teams and the deal structures that you do. And that when you combine that with great
sales skills, and you really understand their needs, and you prescribe for them a solution,
either from you or your network of advisers or other people that you have access to deal
flow from and help them meet their needs. That's where you build loyal And get referrals.
Okay, it’s not that complicated. just memorize that little, little thing | just did. And just look
for ways everyday to apply it. And pretty soon you'll see yourself expanding, expanding
your network and social media makes it easy to share that stuff and find out who bites it's
bait, you stick in the water, the right people will resoond. Now you know who they are, you
can begin to cultivate the relationship, hey, | notice you've clicked on this or you like this.
You know, on my social media, | just ran this article, thought you'd like it. Now you're

having a direct contact with somebody. It's not just this cyberspace relationship. | mean,
that right. So there’s going to be extremes. And so we want to find the markets that are
extremely good values or have really extremely good fundamentals that are being lost in
the noise because again, national or macro stats even at a state level, You say, Well, you
Scott, you mentioned Casa Grande, right? I'm familiar with the market. But you know, you
say, oh, Arizona's, you know, fastest growing state. Yeah, well, yeah. Apache Junction, |
mean, you know, | mean, we're, it you got to get down to the market. And what you're
doing by demonstrating that to people, especially if you take the the national and the
macro intelligence and you marry it to local intelligence, like we do at the field trip, we
modeled that for everybody in the field trip. And I'm just gonna say this to everybody on
the call. And again, it's gonna sound maybe like a little bit of a reprimand, | was literally
shocked that all of SMC wasn't on the on the Jacksonville field trip, the opportunity has
been two days in a marketplace, to watch us go through it, to study it to look at what we
look for all the things we talked about to miss that opportunity to be trained in that way. |
was flabbergasted. | tried to make a video to encourage everybody to come. And | think
that somehow, and | think | may have put it out, but | put it out really late. | just assumed
everybody would be there was just amazed. So | just want to encourage you. And | know
that there's 1000 million things competing for your attention. But Robert, and | haven't
done a field trip in so long, that the the slide that he put up was in the old, small format.
And it was a really, really old picture of Robert and | like when Robert had hair. And we
were just much much younger. So we kind of laughed about that, like it was Oh, those are
little brothers there. But But those are rare opportunities. And it was just it was amazing. It
was really, really an excellent trip. And you get a chance to interact with the developer, we
had a local congressman come out and talk about the political environment, what they're
doing and how they're looking at Real Estate right now. And the problems they're trying to
solve. We had an executive from the National from the local homebuilding Association,
come out and talk about what they're dealing with. We got into issues of supply chain, we
got into issues of regulations, taxes, it was really, really, really good. And there's just no
way to videotape that and bring it back because it’s just it's it’s like trying to capture the
value of the summit on videotape. How do you videotape the conversations in the bar? Or
what's going on at the beach club? You can't do it. It’s just not possible. So I'm just gonna
encourage everybody next time a field trip comes along, be on it. Be on it just for the
education alone? It's worth it. And who knows, you might actually find some inventory or
meet some people that make sense. So not too much of a reprimand but just just an
exhortation if you're friendly exhortation. Okay, so somebody Susan says, Do you see the
injected medicine mandates affecting real estate? Yes, apps a positive lately? In my
opinion, and that’s because when you get to a state level mandate, | mean, like California
just announced that if you're 12 years old enough, you have to be vaccinated. If | lived in
California, | would move over that. Now, you may agree or disagree doesn't matter. Right
there, there's a whole bunch of people that feel that way. And | doubt the opposite is true.

| doubt that anybody who's living in Arizona, or Florida or Texas is going to say, hey, let's
