JO

JO

JO

_JO

you. It's because you're doing a consultation with them about their portfolio and where they're looking to go and

elevates you in a sense.

Russ 52:11

Yeah, | think you deal with that on a case by case basis. You know, | think that it says a lot when you call to Stacy's
point part of when it’s not you, it elevates you, which means that when you do call it makes it even more important. |
found that you know, that's the reason | mean, some of you know, I'll go ahead and let you know now because you're
all part of a club. And you've learned the secret handshake. Walter is not a real person. You know, Walter is our email
room manager as a character | made up when | was running the email. And | just felt like my positioning is the coast
of the show didn't lend itself to being the person who was responding to all the listener email. And so | created a roll
account called Walter and Walter handled all that customer service type stuff. And | handled that personally for a
long time, until we finally got back on our feet and had enough people that we can bring people in and now Walter
is still not a person, it’s a team of people. And people have shared that role. So we have continuity with Walter to our
audience. Walter has been with us for 10 years, but the people behind the scenes who actually facilitate Walter have
come and gone and nobody knows. Right? But it also means that when someone gets an email from me it's like who
| heard directly from the coast to the show instead of just Walter even though for a long time, Walter and me were
one of the same so that's just you know, managing the perceptions not trying to be fake or phony. But you know, you
know, | did it because | anticipated someday | would not be in that role and | wanted to make the transition better |
didn't want to condition the audience that you know, every routine website inquiry would be responded by one of the
hosts because that's just not he was managing expectations so we didn't disappoint. Okay, we have five minutes left
so we can have time for one more question. | think depending on anybody

54:00
got anything. Okay, john, you're up.

54:04

| love the Walter idea. | had just | can see everyone hiring Walter after this call. | do | say something to is it Jenna or

Jaina

Russ 54:16

kana? Jana.

54:19

| was on the weekend webinar and I'm so happy that you got a job and your husband married you.

54:29

| thought that was so hilarious. That was the best part of the weekend. No, no.
JO

JO

jo

jo

JO

JO

JO

28:24
Yeah,

28:25

you go.

28:27

Go Go, you can go ahead.

28:29

| was just gonna ask if there's kind of like a customary or market percentage or something to where if somebody or a
success fee or somebody connects you with like an investor? You know, like,

28:48

how long

28:52

would it be like a point or whatever they bring in? Or how do you typically see that instruction?

Russ 28:55

It's really easy. The answer is zero. Okay. Zero because it’s illegal. All right. All right, covered that in the seminar. You
can't You can't pay a referral fee unless it's to a broker dealer. Okay. Okay. |

29:07
thought I'd pick that up. But | just wanted to be sure, you know, yeah,

Russ 29:10

and there's a lot of people who try to find ways around it, but it’s just not a safe game to play. Now, if you hire
somebody to work for you, and they're in your employ, they're representing you, then they're the same as you. And,
you know, and |'m getting I’m not giving you legal advice, check with your securities counsel, but | believe you can
index their, their compensation to a bonus structure based on how much money they bring in, and | think that's fine,
but if it’s third party to you, right, then it's definitely going to need to be a broker dealer, or, you know, you may have
© Russ 49:08

Yep, that's gold right there. Very good, Stace. Thank you. You had something you're waving your hand. Yeah.

49:15

Jo

So and another follow up question. On the unsubscribe is when you were talking about the investors on the political
spectrum. So the they're all over the place on the spectrum. | had one investor unsubscribe, like eight years ago. He's
a physician. And then recently, we met for coffee and he’s interested | haven't | haven't emailed him and that long
time, but he’s just been seeing social media posts. So I've been thinking like do does it make sense to give investors a
choice like went on to unsubscribe, but like, never email me again? Or just don’t email me your newsletters and keep

me on Stacy's? shigar? nodding your head. Don't email me or newsletter, but keep me posted for

AS:57

future offerings.

JO

© Russ 49:59

Yeah, Think so you know, you people want to, you know, be able to control their experience. So we, we weren't very
good at that in the beginning we're still not great at it, but we changed it from being an on off button because you
know we promo promo promo promo promo to come to syndication not everybody wants to come and the only way
to get off that list is to unsubscribe, which takes them off the newsletter and everything else. And then invariably,
they haven't gotten a newsletter for a while, we look them up the unsubscribe. And if we re subscribe them, they go
through that whole same cycle. So today, when they unsubscribe, we have a little thing in the bottom and you guys
can look at our emails, you're all on the list, it says, Hey, not interested in this particular offering before you
unsubscribe from everything, click here to manage your email preferences. And then they can go through and they
can use a radio buttons to check off what they want to be on and what they don't want to be on. So the more that
you can do, and you know, the thing is, if somebody unsubscribes and you may not be able to email them again, or
that would be a violation. If you have their phone number to Stacy's point, there's nothing to prevent you from
picking up the phone and calling them and say hey, | noticed you unsubscribed. And | just wanted to ask you if it was
because you didn't like what | was sending if you got too much stuff, if you don't want anything that | have to send
and really the bottom line is, do you now or ever see yourself as being interested in any type of opportunities, like the
kinds that we do? And now it's personal. You say, Well, | don't have time to make all those phone calls, well, then you
know, then don't. But you may have time to make some | mean Sep you and | know from inner circle, we've had
conversations where you don't really if you just sit down and discipline yourself to pick up the phone five times a day,

the end of the week, you've called 25 people that you would never otherwise talk to. And it really doesn't take that
long.

@) Staci Gray 51:45

You can also hire somebody to do that. And that elevates you in their mind because you're not the one making the
phone calls. And you're giving them person them like hey, | have an advocate on their side as well. So | think it's

maybe to your advantage that you aren't the one making those phone calls. And when they get on the phone with
JO

JO

JO

you're continuing to set the table and build trust and adding value. And to me, | think maybe less is more, but it’s got
to be something meaty, you don't want to be a me too kind of guy. So there's definitely some art in it. If you pivot off
of what's hot, what's going on in the world, | like that best because the odds of them being interested in whatever it
is you're going to talk about at that moment, are higher, because somebody else has done the busy job of kind of
wetting their appetite,

40:51

you just have to come up with a spin that is different.

Russ 40:55

Right now down the road, as you continue to drip on them in this way and add value to them in this way. Now you
get them to start to click on things or respond to things or sign up for things that are free webinar or a free report,
whatever it is, and now they're beginning to profile themselves. You might say, hey, for those of you that would like to
see a case study on a real deal that we did, and see how we generated these kinds of returns, or how we generated
these kind of tax breaks, or how we look at risk adjusted return after you spent two or three emails, calling out some
of the risks that people in the in the in the paper asset world are taking they're unaware of which of course, is adding
value even before you've introduced a solution. So the other part of selling is, is after you build the rapport, you have
to begin to raise his awareness of problems. But you have to do it in an optimistic way without giving the solution just
yet. Right. It's kind of like,

42:03

forgive me ladies striptease, right?

Russ 42:06

You're trying to allude to something they're not going to see until later and keep their interest. That makes sense. |
guess a guy could do a striptease, too. So we're all in it together. | don't want to end up so anyway. So Does that
makes sense? | mean, ultimately, as you're pulling people off that list and pulling them through, you give them some
place to go where they're going to get maybe a little extra whatever, right? So maybe they're going to go from being
on your nurture list to being on your hot list, maybe they're going to join your investor club, maybe they're going to
say, hey, when you have the next live deal, | want an invitation to the webinar, right? You build up to that. And now
they've moved off that list. And you've moved them over to your other list, which | think ultimately is where you want
to go. You want to get as many people off that, hey, | don’t even know that you remember who | am, or are interested
in anything | do to Yes, | like to trust you. And | want to be on your

43:07
list.

Russ 43:10

Okay, great question. So does anybody have any color or questions or comments on anything there? Billy, you got
JO

JO

_)oO

JO

some?

43:16

Yeah, you know what, | did want to just mention some of the rest, because it is really interesting that you're having
that thought process because | went through something very similar. And | had not been paying as much attention
to my newsletter, as | had previously done is primarily last year, because | was spending more time traveling back
stateside, and getting meeting people, etc, etc. And so about two months ago, | was in the very same place. And |

thought, do | go back and tell people right from the very beginning, what I'm getting ready to do that's different? Or
do | just start talking to them? And one of the things that | noticed,

A3:54
right? That you all do

43:57

very well was is the whole thing of closing the news. And so what I've started doing is actually going through reading
a lot of what is what I'm paying attention to, and I've just went in sharing it, | have not been as strategic as | probably
shouldn't be. And while | know that | have not been but the whole thing is to get back on the bicycle and start
writing. And so the people have, there have been a number of people that have unsubscribed. And I'm actually
happy that they unsubscribe because they apparently they're not interested in the same types of things that I'm
interested in, or | think that | can help them | can add more value to them. So um, | mean, it’s great to hear you say
that because it’s I've just gone through it and set. I'm sure that once you've got a much clearer plan than | did, and so
you're going to be able to add a lot more value to the right people as

44:44

well. So

Russ 44:48

yeah, the clues on the news thing, you know, it's just it’s low hanging fruit, right? It’s just it's easy because you don't
have to figure out what you're gonna write about you just read and react. And the second thing is, is that if your
pivot off of what your avatars are already seeing, then they are already aware. And already potentially interested the
challenge, the big challenge is coming up with something that is unique a perspective, a take some insight they
hadn't considered. | noticed on social media that lots of people in the real estate space picked up right away on this
whole Trump tax thing. And were commenting about how you know, that standard fare. So | thought, Okay, well, |
want to write about it too. But | want to write about it a little bit differently. Well, who's my avatar that | could write
about it a little bit differently. People who are going to either be interested in being an active or passive in active or
passive syndication, right? There's going to be wealthy people out there, who are realizing there's an opportunity for

tax free wealth through real estate, they would never want to own a home or an apartment building for the rest of
their life.
you might understand car systems and economic systems and financial system. There's there's all kinds of ways to
connect with people. But just delivering an apple academic description of something without understanding where
they're coming from what they already understand how they process, it's just a bigger gap. And the thing is, people
don't want to admit they don't understand.

17:50
That's why | stop a

_JO

© Russ 17:53

lot and ask a you know, does that make sense? Are you with me so far? You know, and | might even ask them
questions that if they understood, they would come in, I'd say, hey, it's fine. It's okay. If you don't understand. It’s like,
it's it's, it's hard, right? | mean, all the marketing, everything out there is designed to get you to think a certain way,
buy low, sell high. And I'm over here talking about income and tax breaks. | mean, there's people right now whose
hair is on fire, because Donald Trump paid $750 in income tax, if that turns out to be a true report right? Now, we're
all like, we got it back in 2016. When he goes, because I’m smart. We all like yeah, cuz he’s smart. He's using the tax
code. His rebuttal is like, | didn't write the tax code. You wrote the tax code, Joe. | just used it right. Now the big
concern and this is the newsletter that | just got done editing before we got on this call, is that there’s going to
become perhaps a lot of political pressure by the very politicians who created that code to make it go away because
they're going to make it an issue that it hasn't been | mean, you know, last night Biden himself said hey, you know, if |
get elected, I’m going to make those things go away. Now, politician sale kinds of things, they don't really mean. So
who knows if he really would, really wouldn't, but the threat is on the table formally as of last night. So anyway, the
point is, is that when you're talking to people, make sure that you listen more than you talk, make sure that you
explain whatever it is you're trying to explain, and metaphors, analogies, that they already have some basis of
understanding which means the more you know about them, their industry and and things that are out there in the
public purview that are that are readily understood when you start moving into some of the more esoteric areas of
your offering your industry, your niche, or the financial concepts that make what you do look good. You're going to
have to be patient in building from a place of where they are and bringing them through to a place where you are
and make sure that you you do that as well. Okay, so | just noticed we have a chat As | was a pay attention chat,
don't know if there’s anything in there that | need to be watching, but I'll bring it up here to the forefront. Okay, so
that was a big ramble. Yep. Anybody have anything they want to ask or clarify in any of that before we just kind of
toss it to anybody else who wants to talk about anything?

20:14

Yes, no, maybe so. Okay.

JO

© Staci Gray 20:22

| think Jana put in the chat a specific question and | in since we're recording it, Jana, why don't you just ask that

question. Alright,

@) Janna Hubbs 20:33

so you talked about financial platforms listening to financial information? What are some of the recommendations
JO

Jo

singing out of the same song books, that makes sense. Now, if I'm competing against him, then | need to know what
he's saying. So | can potentially refute him. But personally, | listen to Peter, probably two or three times a week. He's
my go to podcast when | shave. Now his podcasts are longer | listened to him. That's not easy to do, like at 1.4. And
he already talks fast. So it's like he sounds like Alvin, you know, in the Chipmunks. But | listened to Peter. You know,
now there may be other people, | think right now, | would be listening to the wheel right? wheel right is probably one
of the smartest people when it comes to tax in real estate. And last time | looked at that is probably going to be a
big topic in the public eye. And there's probably going to be a whole lot of wealthy people who's who are going to
just have this awakening. They're like, Oh my god, | had no idea that it’s possible for me to make a million dollars and
pay zero income tax. | just bent over and accepted that | was going to have to pay, you know, four or $500,000 in tax
and a million dollar income. Right? They they may rage against it publicly, but privately, they're probably fact
checking. And when they go do that one of the voices they're probably going to discover is Tom wheelwright. So if
you are pointing at Tom wheelwright, if you have a relationship with Tom wheelwright, if you're creating content with
Tom wheelwright, if you're quoting Tom wheelwright, that's going to be an advantage. | go to Yahoo Finance every
day. | don't particularly care for Yahoo and one of my favorite things was to read what was going on in the comment
section but they blocked it. They don't they don't allow comments anymore. So | can't tell how people are reacting to
the information. Say the drivel, they're being fed but | can't tell right but | like YouTube now | go to YouTube but I've
just start tracking what are the most popular financials and | dropped down into the comment section to find out are
people liking or people not liking are they objecting? Are they not objecting? Are they posting other resources? |
mean, I'm just checking it out. So Yahoo Finance i think is important. | think Billy put Market Watch investopedia

24:48

but really, it’s it’s it's it's it's really understanding who

Russ 24:57

who is your target market. Paying attention to And you have to pay attention to those people. The second thing is, is
Who do you want to attract? Right? We, when everything fell apart in 2008, Robert and | recognized that the real
estate community we were in, didn't have any money and didn't have any appetite. So that market had shriveled up.
And everybody that was still in this space was just beating each other up trying to compete for the much lower
number of fish remaining in the pond. Robert and | took a very different tack based on our marketing philosophy,
which is don't be Waldo. And so what we did was we said, well, who does have money right now? Well, gold was
tearing it up, you know, gold was up at like 1900. | said, Okay, well, people in the metals and mining are probably
feeling pretty bullish, pretty optimistic, they probably have money, maybe a percentage of them would be willing to
diversify. Let's go

25:49

learn who those people listen to. Let's

Russ 25:56

use the show as a way to interview them. In your case, you could just use podcasts or YouTube to listen to them. Let's
learn to think like they think talk like they talk and then figure out how to connect from what they already
understand, to what we understand. And that's how our relationship with the New Orleans investment conference,
and the precious metals community was born. And that's turned out to be a great relationship. Robert and | are
flying to New Orleans in a couple weeks. And we're going to be you know, the only we're going to be two of the three
JO

JO

in the yield, but in the bond value, that a lot of people who invest in bonds for income do not understand the
principal risks that they're taking in an environment like this. Right? | mean, somebody that is getting a 1% yield on a
bond, and they can move to a 2% yield, they're like, wow, | doubled my income, then may seem great. And they may
feel good, maybe they had to go from a government bond to a high yield corporate bond or something, you know, or
maybe maybe they don't even understand the difference in ratings between a good credit score and a poor credit
score, and they they're doing a junk bond. Right? So they, you know, that that that's the risk, that's the default, the
counterparty risk. So that's part of it. But the part of the risk they don't understand is if interest rates were to rise,
then the principal value of their bond portfolio collapses, which means now they're trapped. And so you know, the
key to getting people to understand these concepts is not to explain them academically, but it's to find out what they
already understand. And then, and then pivot off that. Right? | always use the example of GE. Is this because Jesus
was trying to explain to a bunch of very simple people, very unsophisticated people, a very complex topic, like what
is the kingdom of God? What are the spiritual principles, and so he used analogies They could understand I'll make
you a fisher of men, The kingdom of God is like a seed you planted, because he's talking to farmers, they understood
that, you know, I'm a husband, and I'm a vineyard, I'm a shepherd, whatever it is, right? So you have to find things
that they already understand. Most people understand that and credit score means you pay more for interest. Right?
They understand that. So the follow up question to engage their mind isn’t tell them but as to ask them. Why is that?

15:26

And let them answer. It's

Russ 15:30

because there's a risk, | might not get paid. Well, is there any risk in any of your holdings right now that the person
who owes you

15337
might not pay? Okay, they can relate to that.

Russ 15:44

They may understand dividends, they may understand if a company can do that dividend, it causes its share price to
drop, they may understand price to earnings ratio, they may not. So every investor is understanding and how you
communicate to them will vary. That's why you want to talk a lot less in the beginning, and ask a lot more broad
questions to find out who they are, where they came from, what they're invested in now, how they became to be in
those investments, what their goals are for the conversation, why they're even talking to you, if it's you know, on a
scale of one to 10. And it’s a 10. What what's going to make this a win, and then they'll will still start to open up. And
as they open up, you start to pick up things not only about what they need one desire, but how they perceive the
world and what they already understand. So when you try to explain to them concepts, they don't understand, you're
going to look for a bridge and their current understanding. So again, the more conversations you've been in, the
more you understand about different professions. JOHN, | believe you're an attorney, if I'm talking to you, | or at least
you have a JD, | thought | saw that behind your name, maybe I'm wrong. But But oh, my God, | don't practice a lot.
But if you earned a JD you understand legal concepts. So | could talk to you in legal analogies and feel like | have a
better chance of connecting. Whatever it is I'm trying to explain to something you already understand. If it was an
MD behind your name, then | will use different analogies. Prescription without diagnosis is malpractice. | would talk

about disease and illness and in systems working together financial systems, bodily systems, if you were mechanic,
average expense ratio, you can get an idea what net operating income is on any particular property. But as far as
what the cap rate goes, goes, that’s a, that’s a function of what investors are bidding on to get to that noi. And in an
environment where debt is cheap, and people are looking to arbitrage the lower interest rates go on mortgage, the
more cap rates tend to fall, meaning prices get bid up. That's why low interest rates in the marketplace tend to be
bullish, or cause real estate prices to rise. Does that make sense? Okay, so obviously, the reverse is true in real estate,
if interest rates go up and inhibits the ability of a borrower to leverage a stream of income that may be fixed into
getting a loan and driving up the price. And so the less purchasing power, a buyer has the lower the prices, so higher
interest rates, lower price, same thing with bonds. So that's kind of the concept of the inverse relationship between
bond prices and bond yields. | know this is sales and marketing. But if you're going to be in the business of marketing
money and opportunities, you need to know how to speak economic dynamics, at least enough to be able to explain
to people what's going on in the economic environment that you're presenting your offering, and to be able to
compare and contrast it to what else they might be considering. And that kind of brings you out to the notion of
what's risk adjusted return. Because, you know, people who understand bond markets know there are government
bonds, and there are different rankings of governments, the United States issuing the world’s reserve currency and
having maybe the world's biggest economy, maybe the world’s second biggest economy, depending on how you
measure it. But arguably one of the strongest economies in the world backing up that bond makes that bond fairly
risk risk free. Now you know, you may not be able to say what the value of the currency is going to be, but that but
the idea that you're going to get paid back the number of dollars that you know, the the bond issuer, the United
States government is obligated to, you're going to get out, they're gonna print the money they're gonna pay you. So
that's considered to be risk free, that's at the center of the risk, kind of a world right so if you think of a target with
these concentric circle As the further you go out, the higher the risk, the more the risk premium is. So for people in
the insurance business, you understand, you know, premium premium is the price you pay to the insurance company
for taking the risk interest is the price you pay for accessing the money. And so as a borrower you are presenting a
risk to a lender, the person who's buying the bond. And therefore, if you're higher risk, you're going to pay a higher
interest rate. Because we all know that as borrowers, if you have a strong credit score, strong balance sheet, you
have good collateral and a good market and a track record a good management team, you're going to get a better
loan than someone comes in who's got a bad credit score a weak balance sheet, a poor property and a bad market
and no experience? Right? Those are two extremes of risk. So when you talk about risk adjusted return, you don't just
talk about whatever it is you're presenting to somebody like okay, here’s the math, here's the deal. Here's the, here's
the you know, the income, here's the expenses, here's the yield, here's the anticipated inflation and the tax write offs.
And somewhere down the road, we project an internal rate of return of boom. Okay, so that's a number. And that
number needs to be put in the backdrop of how much risk is the person taking. Now some of that is going to be
subjective, how they feel about you, you're experience the quality of your team, your track record, and the more you
can sell that the higher the risk adjusted return is, because you're presenting a transaction that's likely to happen
based on the skill of the team. Just like if you're going to bet on a horse at the horse race, you got a jockey key with a
great track record, and a horse that's got a great track record, the odds are going to be low. So the payoff is going to
be low. But you could say yes, but this guy always wins. Therefore, from a risk adjusted basis, it’s the best bet, even
though it pays the lowest in terms of in a game can tell | don't race horses, so | don't even really know what the hell
I'm talking about. But you understand the idea, right? So So the other parts of the risk in your deal are going to have
to do with the market, they're going to have to do with the deal itself. And your ability to explain the risk, the risk
mitigation strategies, and where your numbers come from, and the capacity of your team, you can put that into a
risk adjusted presentation, of course, the challenge is, is any perception of value is always based on compared to
what now they may be looking at other deals that are similar. A lot of times we come in, we go, hey, I've looked at 10
deals, and this is the best deal. So compared to those other nine deals, this is a great deal. But your prospective
investor isn’t looking at those other nine deals, you can tell them about it, but they're going to be comparing your
thing to something that guy from their financial advisor from Wall Street is offering them for something they saw
advertised on TV, from something their father in law, or their neighbor told them about. And if you have no working
knowledge of any of those things, or the macro factors going on that affect the risk, adjusted return or things that
have nothing to do with the space you're in, you're at a little bit of a disadvantage. Now do you have time to become
an expert at all these things? Well, no, not necessarily. But | think it’s good to understand at least some of the stuff

that's Top of Mind on top of radar. So that’s why | am a big advocate of following the main stream financial news,
JO

JO

JO

some other arrangement, but | would, | would just be very, very careful. Okay. So, yeah, not not a good way to go.
Now. You could take that same amount of money and you could buy into advertising. So if you're if you're say you're
doing a reg, see where you can advertise to accredited investors, then you can buy advertising on financial shows
and whatever, or you can hold webinars or do whatever you want, and invite complete strangers and put your
allocation, your marketing your promote, if you will, into purchasing email lists, or ad spots or something like that.
You know, and so somebody may have a list, somebody may have an audience and you go to them and say, Hey, I'll
pay you $5,000, if | can do a webinar to your, to your group, it's like buying a tradeshow booth, you can do that, right,
you can pay somebody for a tradeshow booth, but you can't go Okay, and I'll pay you out of what | get. Can't do
that.

30:50
You could pay for Li E.

Russ 30:55

You could go you know, I'll pay $100 for a lead | get and but the risk is on you. You can't You can't pay them only
based on on what you get out of it. But as you get good at making those decisions, you should be able to make
money in the beginning, you may lose a little bit. But it goes back to what | was saying the more you understand your
avatar, and the better you are at presenting what you're doing in the context of way they can understand it against
the backdrop of their individual need wants desires, goals and objectives. Your closing ratio should be good. So when
you're talking to a prospective advertiser, you know, they should know their avatar pretty well. If you can go toa
couple of events or participate on a couple of webinars or listen to their podcasts or watch your YouTube videos. And
you know, look at what's going on in the chat or look what's going on in the room and kind of get a feel for Are these
the kind of people | think | would want to do business with, then you may want to risk some of that, but don't take

the risk of paying a commission you'll

31:54
you know, that'll be bad.

Russ 31:58

Okay. All right. So who else has a question? Is it were we back to separate? Did you have one, john?

32:05

I'm here to listen. And | might have a silly question. It's unimportant at the end, let's

Russ 32:10
go. Okay, well, then it’s you.
Oo

™

JO

32:15

| can't promise that the question will be silly. It's It's related. It's related to the the Perry Marshall at 20. Sales and
Marketing. Specifically, there was a story in there about racking the shotgun. Yeah. So rusty, do you share that that
particular story, then I'll go into my question because it ties into it.

Russ 32:34

Yeah. So Perry, Marshall, famous marketer wrote a book called 8020 marketing. And his thesis is that 80% of your
income, or it's going to come from 20% of your list. And that was inside that 20%, there is 20% of that 20%, that will
pay for something even bigger and more spectacular. And inside of that 20% of 20% is another 20%. And so the
concept of that 8020 rule being fractal, and that you should have offerings, that encompass the big group of the
20%, in not in the original 100. And then a higher level offering. So maybe a $50,000, minimum investment $100,000
investment 250, a million dollar a $5 million, with the idea that if your list is big enough, there’s going to be
somebody, you might have 1000 people on your list, and only one guy would do the million bucks, but that one guy is
worth 20 of the people at the $50,000 level. Right? So that's kind of Perry Marshall's argument there. And it's a quick
read, and it's a good read. And you should read it, if you haven't, we did a book study of on it in our inner circle, the
concept of racking the shot gun is comes out of a story. And | don't remember exactly what the story where the story
came from. But the purpose of the story was just to explain that people, people who are ready for something, we'll
hear it when the timing comes. And so he says, you know, if you walk in, you know, you walk into a bar or some type
of a gathering, where it's loud and noisy, and you've got your shotgun hidden, and you rack it, there’s going to be a
percentage of people who look around because they understand what that sound is and what it means. And it's
going to be about 20% of the crowd, the 80% of the crowd, who completely ignore and have no idea what just
happened. And so if you're, you know, whatever it is you're offering is something that would only be appropriate for
people who are would recognize the offering when you presented it to them, then they're going to respond to that.
And so, if you put bait in the water, like the tax issue that we're all facing right now, there's going to be a certain
percentage percentage of people, you know, if if | make less than $40,000 or 35,000, or whatever the current limit is
where | don't have to file a tax return. Then when you rack that shotgun of tax free income, it means zero to me. I'm
not going to turn around microbead means nothing to me. Now if I'm a guy that just made a million bucks and just
got done doing my taxes and owe 400 grand man, you'd say that to me, I’m, I'm like, I'm all ears. That's what racking
the shotgun is. And so you learn how to make sounds, if you will, or say things are put bait in the water that will elicit
the reaction, the interest of people who have very specific needs. And you do you know, so the key is, What sound do
you make, what bait do you put in the water to attract the fish you're trying to attract. And that's really the art of
marketing is knowing your avatar so well, that you put something out there that for sure they're going to respond to
and then once you hook them, you got to you got to reel them in now I’m not a big fan of hooking because doesn't
end well for the fish. I'm a fan of farm. But the idea that you have to have a nurturing program from the time you
plant the seed until you harvest the fruit, that's kind of what the religion process is. So septate, | cover that well
enough that you think everybody's up to speed ready for your Yeah, that's

JAS

perfect. Thank you. So following on the point of putting out the the content or the bait out there. So in the context of
the newsletter, my list there's there's a smaller portion of the list that are the existing investors that | nurture better
than the majority of buy lists, which have their they've been on the list for a couple years, and | haven't been keeping
in touch with them. So I'm getting the CRM set up getting my newsletter set up. And I'm trying to apply the 8020 rule
to the dormer partial list the bigger piece of it and I'm thinking so |, my newsletter | have | have the first four
newsletters mapped out and they kind of tell story. So that the fourth one that's that's kind of where | deliver the
value of
September 30, 2020 - Ask the Mentor Q&A LIVE Call
on Sales a...

@ Wed, 10/6 12:49PM © 1:02:19

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, understand, question, investor, unsubscribe, email, talking, syndication, interested, risk, world, big, infusionsoft,

newsletter, marketing, conversation, offering, bond, pay, cap rate

SPEAKERS

Russ, Janna Hubbs, Staci Gray

jo

Russ 00:16

Hey everybody, this is Russ. We're here for another edition of Ask the mentors. This one, | believe is a sales and
marketing. So here was Stacey and a group of folks from the veteran club excited about that. And so | guess the only
question that we have pre submitted is from Billy. Billy, do you want to read your question or ask your question? Or

do you want me to read it? And you have to unmute.

00:44

Yes, | am unmuted and Russ, | know that | had a question that was about bond prices and yield. | don't exactly
remember what it was. But | do know that this is important. As part of the conversation, | think it's important as part
of the conversation with potential investors to help them understand. But if you have the question, it'd be great. If

you could have it read.

Russ 01:05

| do. There's actually two parts to it. First was about, you know, kind of the concept of risk adjusted return. We talked
about that quite a bit. And the second one, he said, when interest rates fall bond prices rise true, and vice versa. True.
And then what is happening to large company government balance sheets, and how does this impact investors?
Okay, so I'll dive into that. And those of you who didn’t submit a question, while I'm talking about this, if you guys
want to dialogue about it, we can because we're a small group. And then if you have any additional questions, and
we'll, we'll progress through that | we have up to an hour, we won't go past an hour, we don't have to stay an hour, if
if we get it all done. But let's delve into this. So first of all, | think most people who are real estate investors
understand the concept of cap rates. And you understand that as a buyer, you want to buy at a high cap rate. And
as a seller you want to sell at a low cap rate. Well, if you're just replaced the apartment building or the piece of real
estate, the income producing piece of real estate with a bond, and you change cap rate to yield, you get the concept
right away, right? If you go buy a bond, and it’s performing at a certain yield, it's coupon, if you will. And it’s it’s less
about the rate because the rate fluctuates. It really depends on what people are bidding for the streams of income,
you can say, what is the income? Well, that's different, you can kind of know what rents are and using kind of an
46:02
Where are they going to go?

JO

© Russ 46:04

Well, they're going to be interested in having a wall street like experience with a main street product, who can help
them syndicator. So it's a huge opportunity. It's a giant opportunity. So now I've got a positive spin on something, you
know, and | didn't really | mean, you have to, you always have to tread lightly when you're talking about anything
political. | mean, we had Tom wheelwright who's arguably been the least political person we've had of any thought
leader. And yet, we took some heat, the last time he was on the show, because he read the Biden tax tax planning
goes, the Biden tax bite is not good for real estate investors. And somebody took that to be political, and we're like,
that's just his analysis. | mean, he's just telling you, if he’s just CPAs, like, if this tax code, you're gonna make less
money, right? It's math, I'm not telling you

46:48
that it's

JO

© Russ 46:51

bad for the country, or it’s bad public policy, I’m just telling you, that as a real estate investor is bad for you. It's just a
fact. Right? Has Tom done this with Tom saying, so sometimes you have to try a little bit lightly. But there's gonna be
a lot of fodder to work with during this election cycle. So you know, definitely something to, to think about. And
again, you know, really, | mean, if you have political viewpoints, and you're going to consider your investors, your
friend, at the end of the day, do you want to have a whole bunch of people in your life that are completely on the
opposite side of the spectrum of you, you may say, | don't care if all those people unsubscribe, because I'd rather
hang out with people that look at the world that | look, the way | look at it, that way, when | bring something that |
think makes sense based on the way | look at the world. Now with that said, it's always good to have some people

with opposing points of view in your circle, so that you don't become myopic.

) Staci Gray 47:42

| have something to add, for you. Um, my Internet's cutting in and out. So sorry about that, hopefully, you can hear
everything. Um, when you're setting it up on the back end. Um, for everything that you have embedded as links
inside of the newsletter, apply a tag, so you can track who is more interested in what. And then we spend a lot of
time talking, a lot of this is about marketing, and then getting on a phone call. But there’s nothing to say that the
people who sign up for maybe a webinar that you can't have somebody pick up the phone and call them and say,
Hey, so we're so glad that you registered for the event. We're so excited about it. If you have any specific questions
that you want us to address in advance, you can send them to me, so you're starting to build that personal
relationship with them, which is really important so that it’s not all email, especially in syndication, a lot of stuff that
we do maybe with content marketing, it’s worth selling, you know, $100 thing or $500 thing or a $5,000 thing, but
raising 50,000 100,000. The quicker you can get to having phone calls with them and one on one personal
conversations. | think that’s to your advantage, because you don't want your first phone call to be Hey, can you give
me 100,000? It’s more of a Hey, we want to add value to you. If you have specific questions, we'll answer them. And
they feel like wow, these people really care about me and what I'm interested in and educating me as an investor, not
just taking my money.
JO

JO

JO

that you have as far as sites or information besides the real estate, state radio, guys, you know, of course, that one’s
taught. But are there other ones that one while we're driving from point A to point B, that we could be listening to or
tuning into that? Well,

Russ 21:02

| think there’s a couple things one is, is that you're as you're out there talking to your prospective investors, people
you're trying to break into groups. If you think back and we just did the secrets of successful syndication, | say in the
the two most important slides in the build your brand build your network. In the second one is with the target on it is

Who is your target market?

21:24

Where do they congregate? Who influences

Russ 21:28

them? So when you're in conversations with people that you, you know, you think would be your ideal target market?

The question you want to ask them

21:38

Russ 21:40

what financial shows they listened to and which ones they like best and why?

21:43
And they'll begin to tell you.

Russ 21:49

Now, we didn't really know how our YouTube audience would react to our reliance. So we grabbed a handful of
people with macro and micro perspectives, and we put them all up. And we wanted to see Well, the hands down
winner was Peter Schiff by not even a little bit, but by a factor of 10. So Peter was 10 times more popular than
Danielle DiMartino booth who was number two, but those guys are both macro people. Now, you know, you, | you
could say, if it was the radio show, you'd say, well, you guys have been talking about this stuff for so long. You've built
a following, of course, but our YouTube those YouTube views did not come from our radio audience. Those YouTube
videos came from YouTube. So there were 600,000 people out there that wanted to watch Peter Schiff. So that tells
me that | probably the more | can understand Peter, the more | can talk like Peter, the more | can pivot off the things

that Peter is saying, the probably the more likely | am to say things that are going to attract people because I’m
JO

JO

Jo

36:52
what I’m building up to you. | was thinking,

36:56

am | doing this backwards? Should | do the inverse rack the shotgun from beginning give them the opportunity to
unsubscribe up front and filter it versus sending three or four newsletters and then they unsubscribe after the third
one that like this is just another newsletter gets to the point does doesn't make sense to if it's delivering something, if
it's something that could be used as a lead magnet have that massive value in the first email. We're building up over
time. And | can go more specifics if needed.

Russ 37:22

Yeah, so | think you know, I'd be less interested in calling the herd right now then really inventorying it. So | would be
making my early communications with the broad list you haven't been in touch with a following the sale sequence,
the first thing is setting the table. So you need to re engage, and you need to do it in a personable way try to pick up
where you left off, if you can have a plausible reason if you address it For

STi32

ye.

Russ 37:56

Mac the shotgun with something that should appeal to lots and lots of people. Like Sorry, | haven't been keeping up
to speed. But for the last several years, we've invested in multiple markets and I've been busy building out a team.
And I've had this on my list to do for a long time because there's so many exciting things I'm looking forward to
sharing with you that can help you. It’s not about me, it’s about you. Now you've racked the shotgun. So people who
are interested in you, you've rekindled the relationship you've earned the right you set the agenda, all the things that
we talked about and how to win funds and influence people, you've racked the shotgun that you have something for
them financial, if people are interested in proving their financial, they'll hear that message. If they're not, they're not
interested. And they're if they unsubscribe at that point from that very broad frame. They're probably either they
don't like you, or they have decided that they they're financially set and they’re not interested in anything you could
possibly say. So that would be kind of my first volley. If you wanted to, you know incorporate in that or shortly
thereafter some type of an offering of a piece of free content or something where they can begin to profile
themselves, but | would be careful about that. Even the call to action to request something, | mean, you've already
got their email list. You might might wait a little bit and see if you can keep their attention. But you're still just
painting the picture. Now, touching the heart is an individual thing. But you can touch the heartstrings for groups of
people in different ways. And now when you're talking to the masses, you're really only talking to your avatar, and
you're you're strumming the heartstrings of your avatar. And your avatar will respond to that the rest of the people
maybe they'll get something out of it. Maybe they'll think it's interesting, maybe there'll be bored doesn't really
matter because you're stroking the heartstrings of the person you're really after. So it's less about Trying to find out
who they are. You know, it’s it’s, it’s like grabbing the low hanging fruit right away. But trying to do it in such a way
that you don't necessarily alienate everybody whose heartstrings you didn't touch. So again, if you're if you're hitting
things that are common to most, in the first thing, you're going to continue to be casting a wide, wider net while
people who are coming in to emcee the event live and everything is done virtually. So we're just going to be in studio,
emceeing. But we've come a long way from just walking around the trade show floor a few years ago, trying to figure
out which way is up. And what the other thing we found out when we put our silver series out on the

26:44

YouTube video.

JO

© Russ 26:46

Oh, is that people liked it. And we broke it down by topic. And even within the topic of silver, we know which, which
videos or which topics they like best. So anyway, so that's that's the point, there’s not really a answer. As far as where
you go. There's not a one size fits all. It's it's, it's where are the fish. That's the pond you want to fish in. And those are
the fishermen you want to talk to to learn how they're beating their hooks so you can catch what they catch. Right?
The more | can sound like Peter, on YouTube, the more likely people are going to come and be interested. Now. As we
get to know the people that pull through will decide if that’s a crowd we want or don't want, as we put offerings out
there, we'll find out if what we offer is what they want. We have a lot to learn. We're still very much on the front end,
but that's why you do it. The answer your question, Jana? Yes. Thank

@) Janna Hubbs 27:39

you very much.

© Russ 27:40

Okay. Probably more than you anticipated. But that’s that's the nature of the beast. Okay. Jeff says he has a
question in his letter CRM question. So let's do that.

27:51
JOHN. Or Gil, if you guys have a question.

JO

© Russ 27:54

I'm not hearing you. So good step. Is that only me? Or is that set? Can you guys give me one sub somebodies in the
waiting room? Looks like Gill dropped? Are you able to let people in and out spaces? Are you doing it? Yeah, okay,

good, then I'm just gonna pay attention to doing what I'm doing. Okay, so up your up. Is this better? Not much, at
least to me. But

A 28:14

How about now? Yeah, much. Okay. Sorry, guys. If john or Gil, if you guys want to go before me my questions a little
long. You guys have questions or?
even though you may have very little to do with it. A lot of the people who you're going after to have them put their
money in your deal they are and if there's things going on in the marketplace, that seem really appealing, that might
make your deal look less appealing. Conversely, there could be things going on in the marketplace that that make
whatever is going on very unappealing, whether it’s stocks or bonds or you know, whatever, and make what you're
doing very appealing. And so if you walk into those, you know, conversations and you're ignorant of those macro
dynamics, then you're at a disadvantage, and you could walk into something you don't know and then kind of just
bring it down to the sales tactics when you're sitting there in the interview with someone you know, a lot of times in
your warm up in the three step sales process, you've got the set the table, and in the set the table component as
you're transitioning into the touch the heart component, and you're trying to get them to open up. Part of what
you're trying to open. up is the things that they see that they either hope for are afraid of because those are the two
investor emotions, greed and fear. And so you may say, hey, how do you feel about what's going on in the world
today? You may not even have read the paper, you may have no idea what's going on in the market. Did | say read
the paper? Does anybody read the paper these days, put on the record player, you know, let them hear words. That
wasn't a political statement, | was just making an observation that sometimes old people say anachronistic things. At
any rate, you may not have any idea what's going on in the world, right? And you don't need to, because it doesn't
matter. If you know what's going on in the world, what you're trying to figure out is, what do they think about what's
going on in the world? What's going on in their mind? And when they respond to your question, they're going to tell
you what's Top of Mind, and then you pivot. So the better read you are, the more informed you are, the more
conversations you get into the more articulate you get, the more engaging your conversation can be. And the more
they begin to trust you in terms of your competency. And then as they express their hopes and fears, and you
empathize, and then you begin to intellectualize with them solutions, you're moving through the sales process from
touching the heart to engage the mind, and getting closer to that point where you can explain to them why what
you're doing makes good sense, based on what's going on in the world, what's going on in their head, and what
other options they have available to them. Okay, so that's all part of risk adjusted return. It's not a scientific,
necessarily quantifiable thing. But it also isn’t a purely subjective thing, it’s an art and science kind of blended, and
you'll learn how to do it. As you progress, | wouldn't get in over my skis and start talking, you know more about things
you don't understand. But you definitely are going to pivot. And if you're talking to sophisticated people are their
advisors, you know, in the beginning of your career, you're probably going to be in over your head more often than
not, don't, don't be scared of that. And just consider all of that a learning experience. So you don't impress the
investor, so you don't get the deal, you'll get the lesson. And the lesson can be just as valuable, in fact, more so than
any particular deal you get. So just don’t take it personally. It's not a reflection on you, or your competency or
capability. It's just a reflection of where you're at in your development right now. And it's just an area for you to go do

some homework on. Okay, so a little bit of a monologue there. Billy, did | answer your questions?

A 12:23
So not only did you answer the question rescue, you help solidify some of the thoughts that | was having, because
the whole concept of risk adjusted return. Like if | think about being in this complex software sales world, |
understand how that works, because it's against competitive solutions in the way that you've just explained it is the
same type of art and science mix, just in a new world. So you're reaffirming some of the things that I've already felt
and a lot of the conversations that I'm having, where it's not this specific thing is risk adjusted return. It's part of the
entire conversation on one side, and then as it related to the bonds, the price and yield conversation, it’s more
related to that part helped me as well. Because a lot of times, | guess the way | think about it, from a perspective,
investor perspective is is really about the future, it’s more about looking forward, because once they were to have a
bond, let's say they've already locked in that certain yield that it's going to give them for the period of time that
they're holding the bond. So there won't actually be any fluctuation. Once they've made that decision,

© Russ 13:33
JO

problems when the student is ready, the teacher appears. question is where do | go to find the teacher in the forum,
in the library, and then when you can't find what you're looking for when you can't solve a real world problem, rather
than sit there. For week in and week out, day in and day out, hiding behind learning, but not really doing which is
where the true education is, then you know, we don't want you sitting here for four years so you can get a degree in
syndication. We want you to go out in the real world and start doing stuff and when you get stuck, you come in
looking for an answer and you got to dig around for it and it’s in the rummaging around you find things you didn't
even know you didn't need it. You're like oh that's interesting. So there's a lot of rabbit trails, there’s a lot of nooks and
crevices it’s a place to explore now somewhere down the road will we create kind of a guided tour? We thought
about it and maybe we will candidly we still don’t have enough of the content created based on real world we're still
looking as people evolve and the content is created just like this in reaction to real people at whatever stage of
development you know Billy is at a certain level Jana is at a certain level steps at a certain level you're brand new,
right the questions they're gonna ask are going to be different in regard to the topic at hand and the questions
you're going to ask and even within the course of doing this you know SAP who is blue been syndicating longer than
Billy is actually implementing something where Billy is ahead of him and Billy is like you know, | was right where you
at a few months ago and here's what | learned in the real world much better than anything | mean, | can create a lot
of sexy content Robert and | can get together in the studio and bang out a lot of stuff and you can feel like Wow, this
is great. I'm learning so much, but you're not really learning because you learn by doing so anyways bring more so

that that that's where it’s at. And you know, | just that that. Oh Stacy, you got something

Staci Gray 59:35

that said, we also did a syndication fast start training, which is like an eight week thing that we put together and

that's on the platform so you can go

59:46
through to where it is. Yeah.

Staci Gray 59:49

Yes, if you go into the library, and go into the videos, it'll be right there and I'll say syndication fast start training and
it will go through Developing your business plan and developing your personal syndication philosophy, setting up
processes and systems and so forth. So | think that might be a place that would be beneficial for you to start. And
then, like Russ said, that's just just kind of consuming the information and then get out there in the real world and
start doing things. And then that's where these calls and community calls come into play.

Russ 1:00:25

Yeah, and the business planning module, | mean, you know, if you go through that 26 page document, and
understand that that’s kind of the total picture, you don't have to get it all done before you start. But it does give you
a scope and sequence of what to do. And it it, it does it by asking you questions, because we always say if you want
great answers, you have to ask great questions so that the template gives you questions to ask yourself, and then
either you will have the answers or you will struggle with the answers and realize | need to go get some more
perspective, some input and again to Stacey's point, that's where the forum the community calls to ask the mentor.
Sessions like this are places where you can go to get those questions, you continue to work through that.
Implementing everything that you can as quickly as you can. That's why | say you can start building your brand and
building your network he mmediately there's no reason to, you know, the more engaged you are, | mean, just showing
up on the platform showing your face having a conversation saying something nice to Jenna. That's all part of
building brand building. | mean, good job. It's not complicated. You just got to show up. Anyway, so good stuff. | feel
like we could do more. | always want to do more, but we're at the top of our hour and a little bit more we try and
keep these modules directly to one hour. So Stacy, any closing thoughts?

@ Staci Gray 1:01:43

No, I'm really excited to hear stuff how it goes for you and you're implementing that.

1:01:49

JO

Good. Yeah. Okay, guys. Oh, okay, guys, and

© Russ 1:01:56

gals and canines, | guess got a couple of canines in the picture. So thank you all for your participation, your great

questions. Looking forward to the next one. And | keep the cards and letters coming. Okay. Thank you. All right. Take
care.
@) Janna Hubbs 54:39

That's that's been a joke between us for ever.

© Russ 54:43

Well, sales and marketing call and so that was a closing technique that was a closing. Big investor you may have

A 54:53
to propose to them. Very funny. Um,
A 54:57

nuts and bolts. | don't think I've ever noticed emails you guys use Infusionsoft HubSpot Constant Contact? What is
your CRM? And how do you do your relationship marketing.

© Russ 55:09

So, Stacy runs the nuts and bolts side of it, but | actually was the one that made the decision. We started out with
AWeber. And AWeber was like a MailChimp and it was okay. But there were things that couldn't do that we felt like
we wanted to do. So then | looked around and having had bad experience with software in the past and knowing
that | was not going to be running the software, what | was most interested in was something that was well
established, something that was, you know, well supported, that | didn't think was going anywhere, there would
always be people who could help me. And then | went into Upwork to see how many consultants are were for the
various software platforms that | was considering. And by far and away, Infusionsoft was the permanent one. Then |
looked around at some other bigger marketers to see what they were using. And they were using Infusionsoft. So we
hired a VA, we got Infusionsoft set up, we went to a value added consulting company that helped blueprint Stacey
was actually part of that in the beginning. And separately from that Stacey for another client actually had done a
infusion soft implementation and gone through their certification program. And so anyway, the that's the to make a
short story long. It's Infusionsoft and Stacy and her team run it.

FA 56:32

Excellent. And may | ask another question? Sure. So | just joined guys, Saturday. So brand, brand new, lots of content.
And | would say that I'm still in pre launch stage, and just some guidance. Maybe | missed it, but | didn’t see it. What
is the path through the content?

& Russ 56:59

There isn't one. And we thought about it, but it's not a college course, it's not a curriculum, it is really a knowledge
base. And what'll happen is, is that if it's a college course, then people will come into it the way they were trained in
school, which | think is faulty. And | can maybe say that, because | never went to college. | went for a little bit and it

just, | couldn't stand it. So | believe you learn by doing, you learn in the real world and you learn by solving real world
