 

Oo
()

Russ 52:23

Alright, so Sep, you got a question here in the chat. Why don't you go ahead and just ask
Anton directly.

Sep Bekam 52:30

Hey Anton. Great call. Thank you for all the helpful advice. Question was in regards to
your experience during the pandemic, which lenders without saying their name,
specifically, Which ones did you see were more vulnerable during the pandemic or which
ones were were more resilient, so which ones closed up shop said no more loans. And so

we get more certainty on this and which ones just kept lending?

DZ,00

Yeah, so the ones that were the quickest to close up shop were the bridge lenders virtually
disappeared, a big chunk of them overnight, March 2020, which is not really a surprise,
because cmbs lenders as well as bridge lenders, the large majority of them, they are all
securitizing their loans, right? So they originate the loans and then to securitize them and
to sell them into the marketplace. And they rely to a large extent also on so called
warehouse loans, and they weren't able to get those warehouse loans. The the investment
market was terrible at that point. So they couldn't enclosed existing loans that they had
already in the system. So the bridge sites only suffered the most. The second one was, was
the cmbs space, which is very similar, because they also rely on being able to securitize
these loans, the ones that that did extremely well, which is not really surprises, all the ones
that have agency backing like Fannie and Freddie lenders, and hard lenders, they, they
had maybe a week or two where they had some funding issues. But as soon as those were
resolved, the music kept playing. So there was no issue there. Banks, in general, they
continued to lend they didn't really have significant issues. As a matter of fact, a lot of the
banks were probably the most accommodating with existing loans with their borrowers,
when it came to restructuring their an existing loan if it was necessary. And then also the
ones that continue to lend which is also not a really a surprise. The life insurance
companies. And the reason for that is they you're already relatively conservative in
general. And their leverage that they're lending is relatively low, too. Now, what also
stopped for for some time, there were construction loans, for obvious reasons, right. So
whenever everyone is freaking out, or any type of construction comes to a halt, but that
has, at least in the multifamily space that has recovered extremely fast, in order asset

classes, like retail and hospitality, it's still very difficult to do. Thank you.
particular lender is most going to like them. So Anton, what what do you have to say on
that?

© Anton Mattli 26:11

Yeah, so so broker relationships with lenders are are really crucial, right? The reality is that
lenders and originators to have two main sources of basis it's they themselves are the
originators. And then it’s brokers. They naturally build up the rongbuk with their own client
relationships. And they forced to adapt the order Ella Deora basis segment is broker
driven. And that's depending on what type of lender it is, it's actually a Brady bake
segment of the business Volume Volume that you're getting, and they do not want to
damage their reputation with that particular broker. Because the brokers talk with each
other, right, they talk about which lender is easy to work with, who is not that easy to work
with. And what lender is actually pulling through if there is an issue that they all
cooperative and so on. So, brokers have that built in relationship with lenders, bigger
state are talking to them, essentially every single day, right? So with more active lenders
we are working with, be or talking to an underwriter and or an originator, essentially every
single day, right. It's multiple deals, we know who is doing what we know who is who has
some, some concerns in certain areas, so we can address them when they pop up. And it's
very hard for you to do that when you go direct to a lender, because that on the rider has
never met you has never talked to you before. And you also are not the neutral party to
the game. Right We as brokers, we are essentially acting as the the party that helps the
lender to get the steel down as much as we help us to borrow to get the deal down. So the
lender thrusts what we are telling them based on the past experience, and is willing to
take our advice much more easily than but they will be willing to take from from the
borrower directly. We are just today we had a discussion about insurance issues that that
had to be resolved. For closing that happens this Friday. And we know how to talk to the
lender about that, whereas the borer just doesn't know because they they are not in that
business of getting along strong on a day by day basis. So that is there. Whenever there is
an issue that pops up and there is every every deal commercial loan has an issue, at some
point from application to closing, a good broker will help you tremendously just to get it
through the system in a much smoother fashion.

© Russ 29:25

Yeah, and the other advantage of going with a broker, especially from a syndicators
perspective, depending on how broad the brokerage is, and how broad your number of
types of deals you're going to do are, is that you can have a valuable relationship with a
singular broker who can take you in a lot of different places whereas, whereas if you're just

going one lender at a time, you know, then you're potentially having to form all these
 

O
()

Russ 49:10
Gotcha. Okay, good stuff. Okay, so | we don't have any other questions in the chat or pre

submitted? Is anything come up for anybody? Well, we're on the call.

Jarrid Cavanaugh 49:24

I've got one real quick one. Okay, and fun when you're putting together your PFS, how,
because like, | have a mobile home park that | own Personally, my wife and |, and when |
value it, | could value it at a 10 cap, or | get valued at four cap, and it’s gonna have a very
different valuation on my financial statement. So what's the right answer? Like I'm trying
to be fair to myself but also to the bank. And, you know, is there a standard that the bank

Uses OF.

A9:SS

They do not with using a standard as long as it's in roughly in line with the market, right so
if it's in a if it's a rough mobile home park in the middle of nowhere and you use a cap rate
of 5% then they probably will wonder where you get that number from. But if you let's say
use a 7% then they will not question it. Now, while it is also important when it comes to
your RVO schedule, right, you have to PFS and once you own real estate you also need to
provide your RVOschedule. Now that RVO schedule for commercial loans typically has to
be more elaborate. And it also needs to include your your gross income, your expenses,
your noi, and your debt service outstanding loan amount your interest rate, whether it's
recourse non recourse, who the lender is and so on. And naturally based on that, the
lender will also then be able to determine what your debt to income ratio is on that
particular property. So, if you come up with with crazy valuation, and your debt to income
ratio is a is that you're sorry, your debt service coverage ratio is is is negative, then
obviously the lender role will have a Volk question better. Everything else on your audio
scale is really accurate, right? So it is important to understand that if you just present a
few numbers initially, that you have to anticipate that the lender relies for much more
particularly when it comes to the income side and the debt side of that particular
property. So be careful when you're overstating it. And I've mentioned it earlier with with
that ordering the weed will because a lender will ask the questions they want to know how
your existing portfolio performs. And as long as what you are disclosing as a as aasa
value of the property. And it's roughly in line with the market. No one is going to question
that. Okay, thank you.
© Russ 38:57

yeah, so you signed a PG and your income and balance sheet are on the line, right? Yeah,
yeah. Okay. And so they're not worried about income from the deal because they feel like
you can handle it. Right. And so you may want to just make sure you do some deals along
the way where you develop some good income, you know, of your own or again, just
understand it's a two year track record as far as your tax returns go, because once you've
got that two years going, you know, then then you're going to be able to borrow at least
until that tax your expires and then you're going to need new tax return. Sometimes it
again, Vinnie buddy has any experience with this but sometimes if you've changed jobs or
something they may want to see deposits or or, you know, latest paycheck stub or
something just to make sure that the incomes actually there. But again, W two is so much
easier in terms of underwriting it's not a fun way to live, but it’s it’s it's pretty From an
underwriting perspective, so yeah, | would get together with Stephanie or somebody like
Stephanie, who understands how to help coach you through that. And then the decision
about you and your wife, | mean, ideally, you aren't going on any loans together anyway,
unless you need each other to do it. If you have joint business, if you have, if you have, you
know, joint business income, then you know, she can supplement her w two income with
your business income, and use her w two income to qualify, and then you know, or you |
mean, she could leave and you could stay you guys just, | don't know who makes what
and what you need. Those are personal decisions. And, of course, how much of your time
because at the end of the day, the most important resource you have is your time, |
wouldn't, | wouldn't stay in a situation where your time is not best invested. Just for the
ability to borrow. Because you can always partner with somebody on the credit side if you
have to, and keep them keep going. That's what | do. So | think that, you know, | mean, if
the income is good, and you enjoy the work, and it’s not getting in the way, but if you've
made the decision, hey, | need to get out of this, because it's getting in the way, then, you
know, do all the quick stuff that you can do to access equity, get loans in place and do
whatever you need to do. And then just get out. And if you go to do a deal, and you need
credit, go find a credit partner. And if your wife can be that credit partner, great, because
you know, you manage it, or refinance the things that are in both your name so everything
is in, in your name, well, you still qualify and free her up, and then let her keep her job and
work her back up to her 10. That could be a way to do it. And then you put a portfolio loan
on her stuff and clear it out and do it again, just keep ratcheting her back up to 10. For as
long as she has a W2 job and is happy to have it. That's great. Anybody else have any
thoughts or comments on that those of you that are experienced in that space?

© Anton Mattli 42:03

You know, so maybe just give my two cents here. When you talk about through

commercial, and typically we talk about loan amounts that are 2 million and up,
sometimes it's a little bit less than that, particularly on the multifamily side. It's truly driven
by the income stream by the by the property. And then your financial strength is driven by
your net worth and your and your liquidity. And that is combined with your experiences
what Ross has mentioned, right? So that is in the true commercial space, your personal
debt to income ratio, it doesn't matter at all right, you can quit your job. It’s not relevant
at all. However, when it comes to the smaller commercial deals, typically up to 1 million,
maybe 2 million in a loan amount. There Vf seen particular with community banks and
lenders and banks credit unions, they apply a little bit of a hybrid model, the income
stream of the company naturally matters, your net worth already matters, your liquidity
matters, but they still look at your income personal income stream to primarily trying to
be sure that if things go wrong, that you're still able to sustain yourself, right. So it's not as
extreme as it is with the single family side from one to four where all your personal
income, your debt to income ratio, and your credit score is all that matters. It's really a
hybrid. And that is what makes it a little bit tricky when you're in that small commercial
space that you cannot just rely on on financial strength for my net worth and liquidity
perspective. But sometimes you also need to use that, that hybrid on the writing that

some of these lenders are going to, to look at.

Russ 44:12

And | think one of the key points and Tom that you brought up, which | want to make sure
everybody pays attention to is it is easy to think that your your personal situation doesn't
matter that much on a commercial deal. But we knew a guy not a good business model.
But basically he went out and got a commercial loan bought | bought an apartment
building and then just collected the rents and kept all the rents and just kept them
because he needed them to live off of and he just kept them until they finally foreclosed
and took the property. And for whatever reason I’m sure the loan documents had an
assignment of rents clause but you know, having it in there and having them actually
executed and be able to collect the rents for two different things. And he collected a fair
amount of rent before he finally lost control of the property. | think he pocketed like half a
million dollars and just walked away. Let them have the property. And | don't know where
he went. But that was a that was a weird deal. So the point is is is, is you don't want to look
like you're a threat. If you have management control over the money, the checkbook on
the deal, and your personal finances are in disarray, then you have temptation, and you
have the means or the opportunity to victimize the lender, by diverting the property
income to yourself, rather than doing the debt service. Of course, your credit history will
count your balance sheet, your personal guarantee, all those things will count. But this is
the point that I'm making is that your personal situation counts too. So just, you know, all

of you are fine in that area, I'm sure, but just be aware of that.
 

them for them, it it could well be that that they are freaking out, right. So in this particular
situation. And that’s probably a good recommend recommendation for everyone on the
call if you deal with with a smaller bank, where you know that you're not used to
syndication models, that you that you present them with the org chart, and the your roll
deal structure early on, so that they can get comfortable with this. Experience lenders to
syndicators, they will ask for these org charts early on so that they have a clearer
understanding what how that structure looks like. And they feel uncomfortable, they will
tell you early on sort of Sorry, guys, but we are not willing to do that. Now in what also can
happen is whether it’s a bank, or whether it's an agency lender or cmbs, lender with the
syndication structures is even if you're comfortable with it, and | do not know whether that
is the case here. Sometimes when you have too many so called key principles on a deal or
guarantors that they push back and say a lock, you guys or have have way too many
people on the deal. either reduce it, bring in someone who is stronger that can carry the
deal from a financial perspective and remove some of the the KPS that sometimes can
happen. | do not know whether that will stay here or whether they were just freaking out
with the fact that we're syndicating the deal. It particularly with smaller banks, it very
often takes education off of that syndication model, because they just don't see it that

often, if at all.

Jarrid Cavanaugh 14:16

Yeah, | mean, we've got it working. We actually, Russ, | was watching the replay of the Hot
Topic yesterday. And about 20 minutes after | got off of it where you said, you basically
made this happen, but you said | don't know what the status of it is. Now, | don't know if
Jarrid was able to extend the purchase and sale agreement. Well, my attorney calls 20
minutes after | watched that call and said hey, the lender or the sellers aren't willing to
extend the PSA. So we got two weeks. And so | had to go out yesterday and get a private
lender to cover the whole thing for the next three months but... So we're back at another
small bank now but this guy, | took a very different approach. When | went to this guy, |
was very deliberate on letting him know of our structure, letting them know what type of
deal it was, who the Class A shareholders are, what type of control they do, and don't
have a rights they do and don't have. | offered to get Mauricio involved if he needed to
talk to my attorney. And he seems a lot more, he said, He’s done a few of these with a guy
that's doing them in Atlanta. So he seems a lot more comfortable. So I'm comfortable with
him. But now, | would just want to make sure like, I'm gonna navigate this correctly to
where we're gonna be ona three month loan here in the next week. So we'll buy the
property will be on a three month interest only loan that will convert to an equity position.
But if | screw that up, that guy gets more and more equity every month. So that's why |
need to make sure there's no investor money until we actually finance it with a with a no

kidding bank. So the investor money's just going to be held in a separate account, not in
© Russ 19:21

One other caveat with regard to going to multiple loan brokers is sometimes loan brokers
in their desire to help you will tweak your package a little bit so you can put your best foot
forward. The problem is, is if two different packages, you know, they're variations on a
theme show up at a single lender, all of a sudden, that lender who probably was the best
choice for your loan, that's why both brokers chose that lender end up seeing two
different versions of you and now you have a further credibility problem. It's not just Hey,
this person's desperate doesn’t know what they're doing. They don't tell the truth. Because

yet remember how paranoid lenders are they're paranoid?

© Anton Mattli 20:01

Yeah. So that’s actually an excellent point we just have had that case with, with a deal in
Florida, where that deal with already shopped around the ballroom wasn't successful and
came to us. And we looked at the PFS Oreo scandal and all that, then we detected an
error in there, whether it was on purpose or not, is besides the point, but they overstated
their ownership in in two properties. So they own 60% in these two properties, but they
this report 100%. And naturally be if we told them look, we know how that owners shape
structure looks like | think it's best that you're adjusting it now rather than the lender
finding out later. So we made that adjustment, we brought it to the same lender. By
coincidence, we didn’t know that he already went to that lender. And that lender was
already highlighting the fact that they themselves found out that the ownership
percentage was wrong, and that they are not comfortable with that ballroom for that
reason, right. So a good broker will will ensure that you present your package in the best
possible light but also truthful. It doesn't make sense that you are coming up with with a
PFS and Oreo scandal that looks better than what it really is, | do not say that you should,
should be too conservative, but be truthful with it. And we also create a story as Ross has
said, right, we present the best case we talk about the market we we communicate why
you will be a good borrower like in your case, share it with your partner, obviously, it's
important to highlight that your partner already has strong six mobile home parks. And if
it's in that same region, then even highlight that element more. An older broker may not
do that, right. So an older broker may come up with a different story that's not necessarily
aligning with what we would sell to the lender. And that to Russ point it really gets
provides confusing messages that are not fully aligned to the same lender. And that just

raises a red light with with with the lenders when that happens.

© Russ 22:38

Yeah, and in this case, Jared, you know, you had, | think good cause to go to this

particular lender, because the partner had six other deals. Of course, as you found out, it
Jarrid Cavanaugh 08:48

Yeah, so | have a partner on this deal. And the deal is a portfolio of mobile home parks in

 

Georgia. So that partners done six, seven loans with a local bank called a suncoast,
Community Bank and Trust and so he had a good working relationship with them. And so
we decided we'd run it by him and we ran it by him about probably six weeks ago, we
said, Hey, we're working through due diligence on this. It's looking good so far, would you
guys be interested? gene, he said, Absolutely. This is a great, great opportunity. You've
been a great client, we'd love to do more business with you. As soon as you've got
everything wrapped up, send it our way. So we did and then you know, we sent all the
documents, business plan, PFS, all that stuff. And they were like, hey, this looks great. The
deal. | mean, the net worth issue is not an issue. We have plenty of network to cover the
deal. It's only a million and a half dollar deal. The debt coverage ratio is 1.74, if | remember
right, so it's solid on debt coverage. So | mean, the deal really looks good. What they gave
us for their reasons was number one, they weren't comfortable with us bringing in
investors on the deal. Meaning syndicating it. So they, and we're giving our investors like a
7030 split until they hit a certain equity multiple. And so they were like, well, the investors
on 70% of the deal, etc. I'm like, Yeah, but their class A, | have no voting rights for class B.
They just didn’t understand that | don't think and | don't talking to Jean again, after he
kind of pulled the rug out from under us. It sounded like he didn't go to his boss for that
tentative approval correctly, and kind of just ran with it. And then when it got to his boss,
his boss was like, No, absolutely not. And so that’s what it seemed like that. Or it could
have been something where they have six loans with my partner on six other parks. So
maybe they don't want to seven, you know, because that would be probably over 13 $14
million in loans with one guy, so | don't really know why it didn't. They gave us the
standard. Well, it's out of state, even though we're licensed to do business there. | can't
drive over and see the parks, which, okay, | don't think you're ever gonna do that anyway.
But it just kind of weird issues on why they didn't want to do it. The thing that just irritated
me was they were 100% go all the way through the commitment letter everything, and
then just kind of pulled the rug at the last second, | get a no, that’s fine. | can take a No,

just tell me early, so | can do something about it, you know?

@) Anton Mattli 11:22

Yeah. So it suddenly appears that whoever your main contact originate or branch
manager, whoever it was felt based on the history of your partner that that deal will go
through. | don't know whether we syndicated deals before or not. With, with cmbs and
agency lenders, these indications are very common, they know it and they do not have a
problem with it. Unfortunately, some community banks have never seen it, which is not
really surprising, because most of the loans they do or to private individuals or small

companies. And once you present them with these type of structures, unless you prepare
 

because her lungs are giving her an issue. But she was able to create an answer. So and
then | think there were was only one other pre submitted question. And that was from you,

Jarrid. So why don't we start Jarridwith your question, and I'll just let you ask it.

Jarrid Cavanaugh 01:24

Cool. So mine is in regards to commercial lending, but just kind of lending in general, it has
to do with my debacle that happened a couple weeks ago. So for those that don't know,
we were three, four days away from opening, the fund, the loan was going swimmingly,
everything was good, we were about four weeks into it. And then the bank just pulled the
plug at the last second. And my screw up was that | didn't have a backup plan. So my
question is, whether you're working with a broker, or just two separate loan officers at two
different banks, how do you have two banks going at once, but yet be fair to those loan
officers slash brokers, right? Because like, if I'm working with Russ as my loan officer, and
he's putting in all this effort, and getting all these documents, and doing all this stuff to
help me with my loan, then all of a sudden, | turn and go, except at the last second, like |
need a backup, but | also want to maintain good relationships. So | guess that's kind of my

question.

Russ 02:27

That is a great question, by the way. Yeah. So Anton, what's a you?

Anton Mattli 02:32

Yeah, it's, it's a great question. Unfortunately, there is no clear cut answer, if you want to
protect everything in your deal, you have to go with two or three different channels. Right.
And that applies to virtually everything that you do in this business, but it’s not really
realistic to do. We have had a couple of situations where we actually did run a deal
through two separate channels, because borrower decided to go that way, because he
was burned similar to what you experienced in a previous deal. But to be frank, this dual
channel approach is highly unusual. And it it obviously lenders frown upon that, and it
also creates a number of issues with it, because at some point, you need to pick your
horse even if you initially start out with two, when it comes to title. In particular, you
cannot open title with with with multiple title companies, and obviously a title company is
not particularly happy when you when you present them with, with with a case of, of
having two lenders, and even if you did, at some point, you need to pick that horse and
that cannot happen until just a couple of days before closing. So what's the solution? One
of the keys is that you pick the right lender up front right? And that you go directly to a

bank or to a lender or you go through a broker. That is really the key elements to to it all.
additional relationships which is fine, but you're not that valuable to any of them. So
anyway, So we kind of beat that up a little bit. But there’s a difference between going to a
direct lender, a loan officer of someone, and then and then working through a broker
there, there's some advantages to going direct in your communities tend to care about
communities are closer to the action, you're dealing a little bit more with the principal,
especially if you can work your way into where you're interacting to a degree with the loan
committee. But, you know, again, | think by and large, I'm just | prefer brokers over over
going direct most of the time. So, okay, so Ben, you you wrote in a simple question, and
Stephanie gave a pretty detailed answer. But go ahead and ask your question. I'll throw
some things in. And then Anton may have some things to chime in. And some of the rest
of you who've made this transition that Ben is about to describe, which is a common
transition, by the way, | remember when | made it, and I'm sure many people on this call

either have or will. But But Ben, go ahead and ask your question.

Ben 31:01
Yeah, and | think so add a little nuance that | didn't get in the Google Form. But I'm setting

up the stage to walk away from my W2 job. I've had a lot of lending activity this year, in
general. And my wife is currently W2 and works as a provider. I'm currently a W2. And
we're thinking through the strategy of her walking away, and then me walking away.
Apologize. And so anyways, trying to think through how do we make sure that our balance
sheet or cash flow statements are good? And do we want to time those exits that

particular times, and just things to be looking at, as we kind of finalize this strategy?

Russ 31:47

Yeah, well, so | think that the answer with regard to timing is really going to depend on
what you're giving up and what you're gaining by making the move. And so that that
should be the first thing that is going to be kind of driving the decision. From a lendability
perspective. | mean, W2 income is easiest underwriting to do, right, you don't necessarily
even have to show up a tax returns, you know, as long as you document well. But if you're
committed to go, | mean, to me, you know, what you want to do is you want to do a
consultation with a mortgage professional, a strategic mortgage professional, somebody
who can understand exactly what it is you're trying to do, and why you're trying to do it, a
lot of them, this is why, you know, we've got the relationship we have with Stephanie, are
only going to want to talk to you when you're ready to do alone, and they just do a loan
to loan to loan to loan, and they don't really look at the big picture, they don't look at the
big plan. But Stephanie and her team do, so that that’s where you want to start. But with
that said, you know, underwriting a personal loan, you know, what | call personal, which is,

you know, residential one to four, where your income is really going to matter what the
main focal point is going to be your debt to income ratios, and your documental income,
your balance sheet is not going to change that much when you make the move, unless
you're bleeding out, you know, that's a different discussion. But But assuming that you're
you know, you're you're making the move into a breakeven or positive cash flow, then
your balance sheet is not going to change, what's really going to change is going to be
your documentable income. And so if probably, if you have equity and current properties,
and you want to tap into that, and you may have already done that, that you probably
just want to get that done first, and just time your exit because know that right before the
lender hits that funding button and wires, the money into escrow. They're going to do a
verification of final verification, verbal verification of employment. So if you've even given
notice, that’s going to be a problem. And then the loan could get called back or cancelled
right there. So make sure you have all that part lined up. The other thing you probably
want to do is just make sure that you have a clear understanding of what your tax returns
look like. Because you're going to be depending much more upon that you're not going to
be showing up with a W2 or even a 1099 you're going to be showing up with tax returns.
And if you've massage your tax returns to where you're paying very little tax, you may
also end up having massage them to where you have very little documentable income for
your DTls, your debt to income ratios. And it may be that you can clean up some of the
expenses right so your income may take a shift. But if you bring your expenses down, you
can still keep your ratios where they need to be in. So you just need to understand based
on the type of loans you think you're likely to be getting going forward, what those ratios
need to be, and what income counts and what income doesn't count. For example, a lot
of the depreciation on your tax returns can be we used to call it grossing up. But basically,
they didn't count against you, because everybody understood that you weren't writing
real checks for those losses, you know, that was just showing up as on the depreciation
schedule. So you definitely want to, to be aware of that. What she says, I’m just going to
read this as she under evaluate tax returns, she’s a W two versus investment income from
a residential lenders perspective, lenders want a two year history, and likely to continue,
and have it be likely to continue for three years. So what they're really looking for is the
durability of the income. So if you're depending on a new business and sources of income,
how durable is that new source of income versus the old source of income. So if you've
been running your side hustle for a couple of years, and you've got strong tax returns, and
you're walking away, because you've replaced your current income, probably less of a big
deal. If you're betting on the come, or if you've just figured it out, right, and you're quitting,
you got a two year history. And then you start out and you have only a three months or a
six month history, you may have to work a little bit before you're effectively going to be
able to borrow, again, kind of the rule of thumb is you want to have two years of tax
returns that show on average, the level of income that you need in order to qualify for the
loans you think you want to go get. So it does take some advanced planning. One of the

things that | do with young people they turn 18, is | start working with them with respect to
Ollee

Audio September 2021 - Ask the Mentors
Q&A Call on Lending w...

ww Fri,9/179:13AM @ 59:36

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

lender, deal, loan, broker, anton, income, question, property, lending, cmbs, tax returns, pfs, bank,

w2, commercial, income ratio, syndication, issue, stephanie, relationship

SPEAKERS

Ben, Russ, Anton Mattli, Jarrid Cavanaugh, Sep Bekam

Russ 00:02

Hey syndication mentoring club. It's Russ. And this is our September edition 2021 of ask
the mentors and we're talking lending. And Stephanie Riley can't make it with us today
she's sick, which is very sad because we're just a couple of days before secrets of
successful syndication. And she had planned on joining us there, but we're going to have
to wait to introduce her to the sauce crowd till March. But we do have Anton, Matt Lee
with us from peak financing, and he’s going to be our lending mentor for the day. Hey,
Anton, how you doing?

Anton Mattli 00:34

Hi Russ? Fine. Yourself?

Russ 00:36

Good. And happy to have you here. Really appreciate it. We are gonna, you know, deal
with the questions as they come in. | know Anton, your expertise is primarily commercial.
But you've been around the lending world for a long time. I’m sure you have some
residential experience. We did get a question that came in ahead of time, | think from you,

Ben. And | went ahead and gave it to Stephanie. And she can't really talk that well,
Anton Mattli 45:41

Yeah. So since you went down that whole person, rabbit hole of personal situation, also
recognize, unlike on the residential side, where it's, again, primarily your credit score that
matters, they, the larger the deal. And so only once it's above the 2 million mark, when it's
really entering that transactional commercial loan space, they will do background checks
that are very extensive. So if you have any, any past negative history, from a criminal
perspective, as well as from, from a financial perspective, they are going to incorporate
they run the background checks throughout the country. So I'm not implying that anyone
that he around on the call has any issues. But you also need to recognize that when you
partner up with someone else, that you may be clean, but that partner may not be clean.
So it’s important that you have that discussion with prospective partners early on. And just
have a frank discussion lock. Did you have any bankruptcies? Did you have any, any
foreclosures? Did you have any any felonies? Right, so that you're very open with each
other? Because the last thing you want is that you get into a deal. And suddenly the the
lender comes back and says, Well, look, we did the background check. We have an issue
here.

© Russ 47:15

What about tax liens and or or tax judgments or anything like that? | would imagine
anything at all that would be a threat on you, or your assets or assets you have control
over would be a red flag, right?

@) Anton Mattli 47:27

Yes, | do. Certainly a red flag. Having said that, it's all a question of how you handled it
doing that situation. And we we have stone loans for people that had foreclosures in 2010
1112. Out of the financial crisis, and we're still able to get into get them into even agency
loans. As long as the story makes sense, right? Some of you may have been exposed to
that situation, it was a miserable world where even if you've been you wanted to talk to a
lender or servicer, you could not reach anyone. And if you were willing to make the
payments, but you were not. You were not able to find anyone who was in charge. You You
certainly vote in a much better position than to argue later on. Look, | did my best, but |
still lost a property right. Whereas the other extreme is what Russ has mentioned
someone who was collecting rent, knowing that the whole banking and lending world was
in a complete disarray. And purposely pocketed money and never had the intention to
him reach out to someone. Obviously in weevils, like that. That’s a very hard time in today
to borrow. So here, a good broker and a good lawyer or a key here because we can
present a case to a lender and their underwriters in the most positive light if you have any

of these negative face stories.
JO

the deal. But yeah, so that's where we're at now, but this is good on the org chart, I'm

going to get him that today, because | didn’t actually send that.

Russ 16:07

So it sounds to me, like the lessons here are that we've got , the first thing is, is that there's
a difference between a broker and somebody who is going to be you know, representing a
single lending source. And you know, what | learned, you know, because | was a broker.
And what | learned in brokering was that when he you know, you, you, you run multiple
brokers, then a lot of times a broker is all the deal all lands up at the same lender, right?
We you go three different brokers and think you're shopping around, and they all take it to
the same ultimate source, which is the ideal lender for your particular deal. And then
you're quickly uncovered as somebody that shopping around. So | think the advantage of
going with a broker is you're hiring the broker to do that work for you. And you probably
correct me if I'm wrong, Anton probably don't need to hedge your bets the same as you
do when you're dealing with a singular lending source and a loan officer representing that

singular lending source. Would you agree with that, Anton?

Agel

Yes. So there are two elements to this, the first one that you mentioned, do not hire
multiple brokers for the same deal. | know a lot of people do that, because they think that
they they increase their chances. If you hire a good broker, that broker knows all the
lending sources, and there is no needs to do run it through two separate brokers. It
actually is counterproductive. Because if, let’s say you hired Russ, and then you hired us to,
and Russ goes to that lender. And then we present the same deal to the to that lender to,
it creates the impression of desperation on the lender side. So they are more careful with
these type of deals, because they feel that the borrower doesn't really know what he or
she is doing. Now, when it comes to the second point, Russ mentioned, of reducing the risk
of getting in the situation, your win, that certainly helps with a with a good broker,
because that broker knows which lenders to avoid and where the risk is higher that the
lender may pull out. But even if there happens to be that worst case scenario, the broker
typically already knows or resources that you potentially can go too wide. So because
that deal was already discussed with auto lenders, a good broker should already have an
idea of what the potential backup lines or could be, can that always work, particularly
when you already are in a tight timeframe? Not necessarily, very often, you're forced to go
into a more expensive loan structure as what you're going through now. But at least the
broker can mitigate that risk from the beginning. And if that worst case scenario happens,

then at least a broker should have already some backup options in the in the back pocket.
building a two year history. So by age 20, they have both the income and the credit score,
to be able to qualify. When my son first graduated from college, one of the very first
things we did was we went in to see the mortgage people, we sat down and said, okay,
coaches up, tell us exactly what we have to do over the next two years for him to be able
to walk in and be able to borrow. And so it takes that kind of advanced planning. Let's see
their shoe boys, she just went into so much detail here. | would say just in the interest, I'd
rather almost have you bring the question back, | don't want to do her a disservice. And |
don't want to bore everybody by trying to read it, she really did a detail. I'll forward it to
you so that you have it personally. But then we'll also bring this topic backup again.
Because it you know, and maybe she and I'll actually even do a tutorial. In fact, Anton,
you and | should do a tutorial also just on commercial brokering and how to be a great

commercial brokerage client. So is that enough of an answer for you, Ben?

Ben 37:39

Yeah, absolutely. | mean, it's just what I'm thinking about for 2022. And, like, right now, I've
got two residential loans backed by Fannie, Freddie, Fannie, and then the rest are
commercial. But every time | go get a commercial note, and | don't have a broker, so I've
got a good note to go get that done. But every time | go, and I've got a really good
relationship with my commercial lender, but he always says, "Well, your income will carry
you. We're good.” And so | always in the back of my head, I'm thinking, well, if | walked

away, I've got to have the conversation with him on Hey, this isn't gonna be there forever.

Russ 38:17

It's gonna be all about your tax returns. And if you're going full blown commercial, | mean,
if it's truly a commercial deal, Anton, correct me if I'm wrong, you have to have a good
balance sheet and decent credit and a level of professional experience, they feel
comfortable, but at the end of the day, it's going to be the income on the subject property
unless you're doing non income producing, like development or something like that. That's
a different animal. But if you're buying income producing properties, the underwriting for
the income is like 99% the deal,

Ben 38:46

right, yeah. And that was this this last one was the residential assisted living and we are
developing it, you know, we bought this and then we're gonna do the construction loan.
But
could be that that could be overexposure. So when you're aware of those types of
situations, that's a fair question to ask. "Hey, we want to bring you this deal, you have a
history. However, we know you've already got six loans with this guy are you comfortable
taking on a seventh?” Now you may have done that, but this is just for everybody's benefit.
So that that's issue number one. Number two is, is that this deal is going to be structured
a little bit differently. You've done six deals with him, but you don't know anything about
me or how the deal is. And now you've learned the importance of having a lender
understand what the structures are just because they like the deal. And they like one of
the principles in the deal doesn't mean they're going to like the whole package because
it's a little bit different. And in this case, when you're dealing with a known commodity,
you can kind of bring that up. The advantage you have coming back to the idea of going
to a broker is that you're kind of coming in under the wing of the broker. In other words, if
you show up a broker the very first time you're just a schmo off the street. If you show up
to a, you know, direct lender, you're just a schmo off the street this case this guy had six
Long's with your partner, so that was like, Okay, this guy is you know, maybe got a little bit
more relationship at risk, if he screws this steel up, and | would have said, that’s, that's a
good bet, you've got good positioning. However, when you are in good with the broker,
and you treat the broker, right, the brokers volume counts towards you. In other words, the
broker shows up and say, I'm representing this borrower, I've got this deal that | want to
do. And | need your A game because here's the situation. And the the the the lender on
the other side is not just risking upsetting you if they fail to perform, but they upsetting the
broker who's been a good source of business. And so | think again, Anton, quick, correct

me if I'm wrong, but knowing what | know about the business, one of the questions | want
to know is, you know, hey, you know, these lenders, do you have good solid relationship?
Are you with these lenders, relationships matters, and even though everybody thinks
underwriting is just, you know, math and it’s just all very logical and binary and black and
white, it really is. Because there are times when the underwriter is going to have to make
a decision. And that decision is going to be based on the character, the credibility, and the
people who are close to the action. And if you've got a credible broker who's always
brought good business and hasn't brought bad business, and when they've had deals that
are on the line has either brought something through forthrightly or walked away from a
deal in order to protect the lending sourcing, Hey, you know what, this deals a little
sketchy? | want to be honest about it. So those nuances matter. So Anton, | don’t know. |
mean, we've kind of camped out on this question, because | just think there’s so many
great lessons here. But do you have any closing comments with respect to the relationship
side of the business, especially from a brokers perspective, because again, I’m a fan of
brokerage you can, it's easier to shop two or three different lenders successfully going
through a broker who will do that and use their relationship capital to get away with that,
whereas if you're doing it on your own, it’s it’s harder, and then they will also make sure

that your packages are consistent, and yet also presented in such a way that that
A good broker will help you not just getting quotes but also once you have the quote
saying to identify the lenders that he or she believes is the most appropriate or if there are
multiple that kind of can make the cut which One of let's say, half a dozen, the brokers
suggests to pick and then you ultimately have to pick the lender that you want to go with.
That decision should be taken together with the broker if you use a broker, or if you do not
use a broker, you really need to sit together with your team and dig in very deep to really
understand what that lender's capability is. And better they actually have done all the
work ahead of time. And | do not know your situation might obviously every situation is a
little bit different. But what we have seen deals fall through happens in a lot of instances
when someone was relying on a quote from a lender, where the lender was not really
running that deal through their in house credit for a preliminary approval, or a preliminary
review. So they essentially just issued that loan application based on a ona very high level
review, so called "soft quote”, and no one that had the decision power within that lender
actually has looked at that deal. And naturally, once it's being submitted, then suddenly
everyone realizes that their in house credit is not exactly in line with what the originator at
that lender belief while he or she can push through the system. That is when it's a bank.
And when or an order lender vary, all the decisions are in house. The same actually also
applies when you go with a with a so called agency loan or a cmbs loan where you rely on
outside investors and or guarantors like Fannie or Freddie. There again, with if a deal
looks to be a little bit tricky, we generally recommends to run that by Fannie or Freddie or
cmbs investors if it's a cmbs loan, early on, so that the feedback is received before you
even go under application. Now, can that completely reduce the risk 100% that you have
retried or that someone will pull out? No, it does not. But it can reduce your risk
significantly. And | would say that's really the best approach to reduce your risk. Maybe if
you can share with with us what has happened without going into details that maybe
based on that we can give you a little bit of a pointer there. You may have could have

seen a warning sign or Leon, if you talk the approach that | was just mentioning.

Russ 08:08

Yeah. So Jarrid, again, | think you're probably pretty comfortable. But obviously don't put
anything out that you don't this is SMC. So it's Everything's under the non disclosure, and
it's only going to be seen by members. But | think that talk a little bit about the kind of
lender this was, broker versus direct lender, as my recollection is you're dealing with a
direct lender or community bank or something like that. And then and then the second
part of it is, is just a little bit about the deal, and why they walked or why they told you
they walked and I'm somewhat familiar, but | think it'll be instructive for everybody to hear

the details. And then Anton can comment on that.
JO

only have Chloe. So thanks so much for a great session. Hopefully Stephanie will be back
healthy for the next one next month. But keep collecting your questions and forward them
along and I'm sure Anton would be happy to take some of your questions offline as well.
But | hope we'll see all of you in a couple of days in Dallas for secrets of successful
syndication. We're going to have about 275 people or so something like that. It's going to

be a big one. So we'll see you there. Thanks so much. Have a great day. It's good

59:35

bye
© Russ 55:47

Okay, ladies and gentlemen, | think we'll go ahead and cap that we're at almost the top
of the hour unless anybody has a burning question that you think we can handle in two
minutes? Okay, I'll call that a no. And actually, go ahead. Yeah,

Sep Bekam 56:06

one quick one, just on the term sheets. I've seen the term sheets that lenders like to treat it

 

as if they can, they can just , you know, just change it. | will like it’s there's a lot of flexibility
where they can they can ask for things that not even a term sheet and all that is that? Is
that pretty common? Or? | mean, is it just something to expect where they can just change
it even after the underwriting and the deposit have submitted?

© Anton Mattli 56:35

Yes or no. And that brings me to the earlier point that I've made, answering chariots issue
that he has had, if a deal was submitted to lenders credit in house credit, even though
obviously, they are not approving a deal, because it has to be subject to 1000s, if not 100
plus of due diligence items that need to be satisfied, at least a framework that should
agree with, and that is important that you get that answer up front, and as long as it was
run through credit, and they agreed to the principal terms. And you're able to submit all
the due diligence items and get all the way through closing without changing these initial
assumptions, the risk to actually change to the terms should be very minimal. Right.
Having said that, naturally, if the property starts deteriorating, if there are issues with with
with oral stem cells with the key principles, or guarantors, that may have a negative
impact on the overall terms, if you B had a case just two weeks ago, where there was a
shooting at the property where we had to battle with the lender that they did not change
the terms. So situations like that, certainly can can cause a lender to adjust the terms. But
overall, the goal is to get that framework set in the best possible position upfront, so that
you have a high level of confidence that that, as we call it, retrade is not going to happen,
or at least not significantly.

© Russ 58:34

So Sep wanted to make sure everybody knows that that shooting did not occur at one of
his properties, because Sep is famous for having properties where those types of things
happen from time to time, at any rate. Anton, thank you so much. And make sure that you
tell Robert and secrets of successful syndication this week that you have a horror
Halloween Horror Story. Because we are collecting them. It's that time of year. So | think

the shooting one would make a great Halloween Horror Story. And guys and gal | think we
