out a number of things, embedding the relationship with him, getting him traveling to get him places where he's at,
etc. But it really boils down to the people that are on our list. The probability of them ever finding that deal or zero, |
mean, in the real world, so that’s the value and then | think we're bringing so obviously that's worth something it’s it is
truly a volume issue. If | could underwrite it, you know, four or 568 10 million that'd be one thing, but within
comparing that to the people, we have readily available on our network lists that are accredited. I'm underwriting it

at 2 million to be conservative. I'd be curious everyone's perspective on what is fair, | guess within that contract,

© Brad Niebuhr 40:00

Extra, that makes sense. | got it on that. Yeah, go ahead, Brad, you've just done, | think | got two things. So one, you
could do like a 506. b, and then you're offering something in smaller chunks you could do | mean, this is up to you, |
wouldn't want to do it. But you can take in five or six being investors, and you can offer them $25,000 or $50,000
shares, where Dave's not going to do that. So you're bringing something else that day and and that can have a
smaller return because you're offering something totally different than Dave's offering. Yes, it's the same investment.
But you're not getting get into Dave's investment with under $104,000. So you are in fact bringing value to a different
set of investors with the same investment. So | wouldn't feel bad if it’s less return, they're investing less. And this is still
going to be better than, you know, a first time investor investing in something else, | would think. So.

© Robert 40:57

| concur with that. We can talk a minute about that you had a second point?

@ Jay Johnson 41:02

| do. | and we could probably take this offline. | specifically asked Mauricio about doing this, like a couple months
ago. And he said there's no possible way that we could do it because it’s fun to fund. And | don't know if it's because |
live in Washington or what but he says there's no way we could do it. Because | have thought of doing the same
thing. So

@) Robert 41:25

You mean ATM deal? Hmm. Yeah. So | don't know what the answer to that part is definitely talk to Mauricio about it.
It could be a state issue could be could be all kinds of things. Or it could be the laws changed, like for the B to C. But
to the first point, which is | think the bigger point obviously before | mean, if you can't do it, you can't do it. If you can,
you can so you just can't get that figured out. Whatever some syndication or joint venture syndication are coming
alongside you might try to do, we're definitely working on on bringing those kinds of options sitting as lost strength in
it. So you because you weren't, you're able to do with the coal deal. | mean, the oil deal so. So anyway, but back to
the The other issue, which | think is the big one, this is really common. So the extreme example is, if | go in, and | buy
100 acres, and | subdivide it, and | sell the lots, and | asked a premium for all the work I've done, Could someone
come alongside and buy the parcel right next door to my 100 acres? Sure. But they aren't getting the value add that |
created, which is really what they're buying. It’s a little different here, because Dave makes this investment available
to, you know, wider audience. But | think you hit the nail on the head, Jay, it's not very likely that anyone in your
group is going to have run across Dave. And if they do, Dave's got off, I've got a waiting list for these things. So | think
Brad's point of view there a different minimum or something that and then the other thing you sell, what you're doing
is you guys are overseeing the project, you're just one more step of oversight, and you're taking that off their
shoulders. So | also think that there's just an every real estate transaction is valued for bringing the deal, agents get
paid anywhere from two to 10%, the Find a deal, that’s been kind of a standard thing for ever, lenders get paid
switch, you have to stop all that you put the brakes on it. And we'll talk about before we're done communicating that.
So you cease all efforts to make further offers to security. And then you stop accepting any additional
documentation. Because you don't want to, you want to create this firewall, you're not going to take any more
money. If someone was in the middle of filling out their paperwork and sending it in, you just have to put a line in the
sand and say, No, that's the end of it. Okay, once you've stopped that, then you're going to draft a corporate
resolution. Now I'm going to suggest you do this with the help of your attorney. But it’s a simple typically one pager
where your corporation that doesn't necessarily mean the LLC, but it could it could be your management entity, but
you have a declaration that says, here's what we're doing. Here's why. Here's the timeline. Here's the plan, we're
going to see CIT as of this date. Moving forward, everybody who comes into this field is going to be under the new
class and they're all going to be under the 506 c exemption, draft the corporate resolution and then start completing
complying with 506 c meaning accredited investor only and verify them. So verification is different under BNC. Here
you go through the full process third party or verifying yourself with your CPA, but you make sure that from then on
you are only acting as a 506 C and then file two form Ds, why two form Ds, one for each exemption. Alright, so now
the second part of that question is the communication to the investors. So you've got an offering as a 506. b, you put
it out to 20 people, three have said yes, signed the documents and sent the money in. One is negotiating their
lawyers checking it out, they're moving funds, right? You've got to be careful with that one. But when you've made the
decision, you've got to communicate to everybody the best communication is explaining why you're doing it. And
there ought to be a good reason that you're doing it that makes sense for the investors, and then the date at which
you're going to put the line in the sand. So if anybody is in the middle of getting feedback from their accountants or
their attorneys, if anybody's in the middle of transferring money, you have 10 days from the date of today’s letter to
get that done. If October 1 comes and goes, then we are no longer accepting any investment under 506. b. So that
would immediately rule out your non accredited investors. Okay. It wouldn't necessarily rule out accredited
ambassadors that you had been talking to under 506. b. Right. It may have been that you had some non accredited
this, but you also had some accredited you were talking to now the accredited who is in your 506 b? Can they
transfer over to your 506? c? | don't know the answer to that, | would assume there'd be a way to do that. But | don't
know. But | know your 506 B's can stay in place, but they cannot be part of the new class of shares. Because moving
forward, and you can't go back and forth. Once you've gone from a B to A C, it’s there to stay as my understanding.
Okay, now back to your accredited investors. If you had an accredited investor who was on the fence, thinking about
it not sure had scheduled a call for some more questions, then with that person, they've kind of have their choice of
whether they want to stay in the 506 b raise or move over to the 506 C, I'm gonna guess that if you've made the
decision to make that move, then you're probably going to want them in the new syndication and not the previous
syndication. But if they've read all the paperwork, signed everything, and they're just waiting for funds to transfer
their attorneys checked it out their CPAs, check it out, okay, might be easier to take them under the original 506 B,
it's somebody you've been courting, have a personal relationship, it's substantive. They're sophisticated, all those
things, then you might, you might still take them in. Alright, so that was for Ben's benefit. Hopefully, he’s listening on
the recording. Does anybody else have any questions about any of that? Just unmute your mic and fire away. All
right, | assume not. And | know many of you were at the meetup, | figured it really couldn't hurt us to have a little
recap of it. And some of you are new. So it looks like we've got some questions. So let me take this one from our new
member, Pascal, welcome. Let's see, Oh, it looks like you have to well, the one | see. And by the way, I'm not going to
chat much better when you raise your hand and ask so maybe we'll just do that. passcode go ahead and turn your
camera and your mic on and ask your question to me. Unless you were chatting because you couldn't do that for
some reason. So the question is, can | reuse ppm is that the deal is the same? That's a great question. So | used to kid
Mauricio. And this was actually Beth's joke, but | it stuck longer with me that we should rename his business instead
of Premier Law Group, "Global Search and Replace", that's really the name of his company. Because it looks like
when you look at a ppm that that's all the attorney did. In reality, there was a lot of specific language crafted
depending on your deal. So | am not a fan of reusing a ppm. | think it's dangerous. Having said that, | am a fan of
negotiating with my attorney if I’m doing a very, very similar deal. In fact, if I'm in one of these turnkey syndication
kind of models, where this one is pretty much identical to the last one, it's the same state, it’s the same area, it's the
same assumptions as far as the market, it's the same performer Ranch, the price we pay for the property similar,
right? If it’s that similar, then is simply a matter about negotiating with your attorney to say, Hey, you know, is there a

different price for the second one where I'm doing, you know, they're still taking on liability. Your attorney is still doing
wy KODETL 27.55

Alright, great question. You don't because it is an exemption to securities laws. So most of what we do in syndication,
not all, but most of what we do in syndication is an exemption to securities law. It doesn't mean we don't file
anything. We do have to file the as Risa said you're going to file your file your state filings, and you're going to file it
depending on where you're doing the deal. And this is complicated, so again, for me to avoid giving legal advice, just
check with your your counsel about it. But if I'm doing a deal in Nebraska, and 100% of my contractors and team
members and everybody is domiciled in Nebraska, and 100% of all my investors are in Nebraska, then I'm probably
only worried about the state law in Nebraska. However, if | have investors in different places that I'm typically going
to file whatever is required in those states as a notice of doing business. So typically, that's something called a form
D. It isn't it's a notice of exemption, but it’s not the entire document. So you're basically giving notice that this is a
security, but we are relying on one of the exemptions to security registration. So if you remember, Mauricio's talk, you
either fall under securities law, have an exemption to securities law, or break the law. Those are the only three. So
Grant Cardone right now has another reg A is a registered security, it’s a little less involved in a full blown registered
security. But reg A is a registered security. So that is not an exemption to securities law. That means you have to go
through the whole process. But | think a lot more time cost a lot more money. But if you're Grant Cardone, you're
raising 10s of millions or hundreds of billions of dollars, it probably makes sense. But for most of us, if we're going to
raise 500,000, or two and a half million or $10 million, we're going to do that under an exemption to security. And
here's the thing you have to be careful of many attorneys will provide that form to you, for you to file. Nothing wrong
with that. But we have seen people in our club, take all those documents and just set them in a pile and not file the
form. It usually costs something to file it's not very much doesn't take very long. It's not a big hassle. But if you don't
do it, it’s a problem. It's the kind of problem most people rely on the good deal, the fancy, nothing ever went wrong.
People got their money, the deals good. But if there were to be an issue, it is one of the things that will absolutely
rear its head, so make sure you follow through on it. Does that answer your question?

© Kelly Fischer 32:16

Yep. That's awesome. All right. Well, a follow up. question on that cost. What's that cost just roughly to have those
filed in each of those states? | mean, is that going to be a big jump? You got five states? What's that take? Yeah.

@) Robert 32:33

No, it’s a few $100, typically, sometimes under $100. So it does depend. And | haven't done one in a while. But it’s it's
not, it’s not cost prohibitive. Once you've paid for the private placement, it's pennies at that point. And it's good
protection for everybody. It's a legitimate expense of the project. So you put that in your expenses. And when you
report that to the investors you explain this is one of the things we do to keep everybody safe. And it protects them
as much as it protects you remember that you're doing something in your LLC or other entity that’s producing some
sort of liability. Even if you're just Dave Zook, and you're owning machines, ATM machines that somebody else built,
somebody else installed somewhere else sold and someone manages, there still might be some liability in there. So
all of these steps are protecting everybody. It’s protecting you, but protecting the ambassador's too, and it's not
generally very much, I'm gonna guess that some states cost more than others. So be careful, unless you really think
you're going to raise money from 50 states, then there's probably no reason to, you know, comply in 50 states, but
your securities attorney will guide you there, there may be some states that it makes sense to just because they're

cheap or easy. But ask your attorney about that. Okay, anybody else have a follow up on that topic?

@ John Graham 33:53

Robert, is not specifically on that topic. But based on your advice over the weekend of, Hey, why don't you look at
somebody else's deal, and maybe be a passive investor as your first one, two or three deals. So that appeals to me
did and he was actually going to find the way we did it. But you can see that if you weren't there, when the recording
comes out, you can transition that into a 506 C. So why would you want to do that? Well, the number one reason is
you want to be able to advertise, you got to some point you weren't able to raise enough money and or you decided
non accredited investors are too difficult. Again, nothing in a 506 b prohibits you from taking 100% accredited, you
can do that. And there's some reasons you'd consider it depending on the deal. But most of us who are going to
focus on accredited investors only are going to go 506 c just makes life easier for a lot of reasons. But back to the
scenario you started as a 506. b, you want to transition for a number of reasons. Well, you can do that. How do you
do that? How do you transition? Well, this is the integration statute. So we have to define some terms here, but it says
specifically regarding safe harbors. Think of that as a place you can't get sued. There is no integration analysis
required if any of the following non exclusive safe harbors apply in one of those safe harbors is worded as this offers
and sales made in reliance on an exemption for which general solicitation is permitted. So that is a C 506. c, it is
permitted. General solicitation is permitted and 560 will not be integrated, in other words will not be legally defined
as one common enterprise if made subsequent after any terminated or completed offering. Okay, well, that’s a lot of
legal ease. Let me give you some color. Mauricio prepared a multi page document with some minutes from an SEC
meeting. I'm not going to take you through all that, but I'll take you through a little of it. Here is just a response. This
is after about six pages of research presentation. He says we're providing guidance with respect to issues ability to

rely on this rule with respect to an offering that was commenced

Robert 15:00

And on an exception that does not permit general solicitation and specifically it says here, for instance, if the issuer
commences an offering under Rule 506 B, and thereafter and engages in general solicitation in reliance on 506. c, so
long as the issuer and gains in general solicitation relies on 506 C for all subsequent sales. So that means is once you
cross the line, the line has been crossed, so you can do it but there's a few more things you need to worry about. And
I'll skip ahead some more of the legal ease. But to cut to the chase, you can do it and there's reasons to, but here's
what Risa is talking about in terms of best practices. First of all, it will be important to issue separate membership
units. That's not a legal requirement. That's a more risio suggestion. Okay, so what would that look like | want to
issue separate membership units as new people come in, or for each exemption, meaning I'd have one set of class for
my accredited investors coming in new. And they would be in addition to the original class of shares that | had for
my 506 piece on this chart. And the less on the left here, our initial investors came in on a 506 B. So their class A.

Now if you knew you're going to do it, you might label them a one. But if you don't, they're probably just Class A and
you're probably Class B. That's normally how we see folks do it. Well, not in the real world. In the real world, most
people actually syndicators tend to make themselves Class A and they make the investors class be like they were
second class citizens would have you followed us for some while and then we talked about it this weekend. But we
must prefer to make the investors to a class and make ourselves a B class. It has absolutely zero legal meaning. It
could be class, avocado, and class, zebra, it doesn't matter. But rather than say, Hey, I'm the a class, we give that to
the ambassador. Okay, that's psychological, but it's a good practice, | think. So let's say that’s, that’s what you did.
The sponsorship team was Class B, you started your 506 B with Class A, you took some investment in, if you didn't
take any investment in, then you can retool the whole thing. There's some paperwork involved. But But if you haven't
taken dollar one, you're fine. If you have though, let's say you have a $50,000 minimum, you've already raised
$150,000. So you have three folks who are Class A. When you amend your documentation, which we'll talk about in a
second, you now if you follow him Reese's advice, we'll create a second class called a two. Now aid to investors,
because they're part of your 506 c offering have to be accredited. If you're in 506. c, you can't be a non accredited
investor and accredited investor could be in 506. b, in this case, Class A. But if they're accredited, and if they're not
accredited, they can't be in your subsequent offering. So that's the one in the middle your investors in your 506 C.
Now Additionally, research says that you should issue separate membership, membership units feature exemption,
and once you make the decision to switch cease all efforts to make further offer to sell the securities doesn't mean
you're not still raising money for your deal. It means whatever you had out in the marketplace, and this wouldn't be
the advertising marketplace, because it’s 506 b but if you had to talk to people, they've got offerings, you've
numbered every one of your VMs, you've got a list, you're keeping track you're making calls, the minute you decide to
placement. That can be a different kind of agreement, because everyone's at will everyone's on the line. Everybody's
a general partner, | don't meant that in a legal sense, Mauricio can chime in on that. But they're all basically doing
something in the project, other than passively investing. Now it is possible we had a guy in our inner circle for a
couple years who did lots of deals with just one single investor. And pretty much anything this guy found that would
fit the box that this investor was looking for, this guy could write a check for. And so he did a lot of deals, raised a lot
of money but didn't necessarily perfect a lot of technique in raising capital, because he just had one guy had a great
relationship, you manage that relationship well as you'd want to, but the guy was pretty passive. And yet still, they
didn't need a full blown ppm. Now there's one other instance where you don't necessarily need a full blown ppm. And
that instance is if you are taking 100% accredited investors, then you may not even need the private placement
documentation. It can't hurt our practice is certainly to have one done just in case whenever anticipated. It'll go
sideways. But if it does, you just want that added protection of Hey, everybody's saying this. This is what we all
agreed to. Not he said or she said or the other or any of that. So back to the specific question at one point. Let's say
it's Amoeba project, meaning it keeps growing, right, like another piece and another piece and another piece at
what point does it become a private placement? Well, technically, it's a legal question, actually reached out to resale
but he’s in Hawaii. So now isn't a good time for him to be on. But it is a legal question. So what | mean by that is it’s
going to depend on the merits of the case of exactly who the players are. But generally to me that line you cross over
is the minute you have more than one passive investor or the minute you have a non accredited investor. Now a non
accredited investor that is absolutely part of the project are all general contractors accredited? Probably not. So if
that person is undeniably a quote unquote, partner, then you're probably okay that they're not non accredited. Now,
just because you don't need a private placement doesn't mean you don't need an agreement, you need to have a
handshake and turn that into at least an mo you a memorandum of understanding some kind of documentation
because one people forget. That's just how humans are. Yeah, but you said this, no, that’s not what | said, You've all
played those games before. And number two reason is what happens if something happens if all of a sudden you're
dealing with the errors of your partner, or vice versa. The easiest way to know the page everybody was on was to
have a document. So it's good idea to always have some sort of a document. But in terms of what the legal
requirement is, | don't think it’s based on a number of people in the deal. To me, it’s back getting back to the start of
my answer, which is about intent. If your intent is to have some people that don't really materially participate, other
than financially, they put up a chunk of money, they put up a quarter of a million, and they're just gonna sit in the
corner and watch you do the work, then it's probably good to afford yourself and then the protections of a private
placement. So Kelly, does that answer your question or just confuse you more? No, that was a great answer. |
appreciate that. All right. Discussion on that good stuff.

Robert 06:24

Before we leave that topic, Any other discussion around that anybody else have a situation something they've been

through a question that came from sprung from that question? You just unmute and fire away?

Kelly Fischer 06:40

You said you made it You said at the point you have probably one passive investor. Right? would be the what you
think would might be the break. So on a deal, I've got a deal where the only investor in person we have is a passive

investor, but he’s credited.

Robert 07:00

Yeah, so in that case, you're probably fine. Specifically, | think the minute you have more than one passive investor.
So if you have a passive investor, but this is the guy that's bringing the lion's share of the money, then you're

probably okay if he or she is accredited. And if you have other documentation, we don't need a full private
JO

points to originate a mortgage not so they couldn't find a mortgage somewhere else, right. But everyone has a
contribution. And in a good setup, everybody's paid a reasonable amount for their contribution. So the finding thing
is a big thing we used to have. And we're going to have this again, we call the investment property showcase. And we
find a developer or sometimes just an owner, who would have inventory that we wanted to sell. And we had a big
project in Las Vegas when they came to us and they wanted us to sell something like 30 units, and they gave us a
much better price. They gave us a better price. They gave us three or four, you know, extra bonuses. So we they they
were they had a sale center and you could walk in off the street and go there. So we did our presentation. And to be
in our presentation, you had to be a member gon member. And you had to have signed an agreement that said you
were one circumvent and we charged a fee was like $695 if you got a property that was just to pay for all the
processing and all the stuff that we did to get those deals in front of people. And then once the showcase happened,
which was a live event where people sat and looked at, you know, three or four different offerings, then just the
paperwork and the team of the mortgage company who had pre approved everybody would sit the next day for
eight hours and kind of match everybody up. Anyway, all that work got paid for through that fee, but we had a gal
who decided she didn't want to pay that $600 fee and so she flew to Vegas, figured out where this place was when
the front door and she started asking questions and they were fine. Wonderful. They're trying to sell her something
He goes, Well, that's, that's a higher price that | saw. He was like, well, this is our price. We're a developer, we don't
change our price. She goes, Well, | saw a price at a presentation recently. He goes, Oh, are you part of the global
property network? And she said, Well, yeah, | think that’s where | saw it. He goes, Oh, yeah, we have a much better
deal for them. But you have to work through them to get that deal. So they, of course, came right around us and say,
This woman was just here trying to circumvent you guys. So not only did she not get the deal, she didn’t get any more
deals, she defied her agreement, and she was out. So my point is, there will be people, and there just aren't very
many of them, many of them are going to be worried about what you're making that little margin that you're
making. But the vast majority are not when you bring them a deal, they wouldn't have found otherwise. And you
have a relationship with them. And they have no relationship with Dave, you're | mean, occasionally. So you've you
catch someone your list, they go, Hey, this sounds like my friend, Dave's deal. Whoa, small world, okay, if that were to
happen, then no harm no foul, you go? Well, if you'd rather work with Dave, you can? Are you going to work with us,
we work with Dave, and give them the choice. But more often than not, now, if you're trying to step on it too hard,
you know, trying to burden it with fees and costs and stuff? Well, the No, but since it’s already a deal, that's light on
work from the syndicator point of view, | think we're gonna small margin is great. And that's how you work up to
bigger volume. Now you get find it resonates with your crowd, all of a sudden, you've now got the ability to go and
bring in, you know, more investment today, if he’s going to be happy about that, or it's gonna work for everybody. So
| wouldn't worry about it, you do have to make sure it pencils, right. Sometimes it deals just too thin that if there's just
too many mouths to feed on in cycle, this deals make sense anymore. That happens. But more often than not, you're
going to get value for the value you bring. And the biggest value, I'm going to guess in this deal is you're going to
introduce it to people that had no idea it was even out there available. Never thought in a million years, they could
personally invest in the ATMs. They see it the grocery store in the bars, and no, no, you're bringing them the deal.
That's what that's your big value add Does that help?

47:14

Yeah, it does. Thank you and in the attorneys in brought up, you know, offering a lower amount like Brad had
mentioned there, when | talked to Dave, and maybe it was a miscommunication. | think I'm gonna follow up with
him. It's a fun to fund so they're investing in our fund and then our fund is an aggregate total is investing Dave's fun.
Well, Dave was saying that we would not be able to take in non accredited people. But Brad's got me wondering if
maybe I've misunderstood something there. And | should read because | have a lot people that actually are not
accredited, but they have a couple $100,000. And I've known him for years, and they do want him to deal. So maybe
if you broke that up in smaller amounts, if Dave was agreeable, that that might be an opportunity.

NM ~L wu AT.CZ4
wy KODeETL 4/.90

JO

Well, and there's a couple other things about that, probably beyond the scope of this call, but at the point that your
fund has $5 million, it's now accredited, independent of the investors in it. Until it's 5 million, it's not. And Dave's
concern would be an a non accredited investor that finds their way into the deal, and creates liability for him or his
team, somehow that would be his concern. So the common most cautious way to do it is to be only accredited
investors, because that's how he has is set up. But one of the attractions is to be able to bring a deal that otherwise
is not available because of the exemption that would be if you could do it legally, obviously. But that’s that's a
possibility. You just have to find out Eric, and | mean, sorry, Brad, in your deal with Eric, you guys even though it's you

working with Eric, you only took accredited.

48:55

Are you still there Brad? Correct? Yeah. Okay. So if you only take a credit is but the other part is just every jurisdiction
is a little different, every deals a little different. So that's why you got to work out with securities counsel, it is kind of
new ground here. You know, one of the most clear things we understand is there's no way to get paid just for bringing
money. So what Brad and Emily do with Eric is a lot more than just raise the capital, it was set up specifically and
strategically like that. So it may have to be the same thing here. So bigger topic than we have time left for today. But
| would just say that the short answer is it’s always great to check with your counsel and be prepared. Anytime you
have a question for counsel. If it's just an open ended question, it's going to come with a long winded open ended
answer that might cost you more money than if you drill down to specifically what you're asking. Mr. Attorney, let me
ask you specifically this and then you lay out the facts and it's tell me how | can or tell me what else to do. And that
way you're conservative with your legal dollars. We're not trying to be tightwads you're trying to be efficient with
other people's money.

Robert 50:09

All right, good stuff. We just have a few minutes left as anybody that has a quick question. If so you can just unmute |
don't see anybody else with their hand raised except Kelly. And if that's a new question, or you just don’t put your
hand down, that’s a new one. Okay, new question from Kelly,

Kelly Fischer 50:25

This would be quick, could be a quick answer. But while back, Mauricio was talking to us on one of the events about
a change to the laws to where they would, that hasn't taken effect, yet at the time, but where they would allow you
to pay somebody for raising money for your deal? And I'm wondering if there's been any more an update on that?
Or? If that's not the case? If you can't do that, is there a way to structure the deal and make them a part of the
syndication? And what role would they play to allow them to raise money?

Robert 51:04

Yeah, so as far as whether or not there's an update, | was excited to hear Mauricio share that information. But | don't
know about an update, I'm gonna guess he would have let us know that this last weekend had there been because
that's going to be kind of big news. Just like the big not so positive news about IRAs and syndications. So, | don't
know if there’s an update on it, the big picture is you cannot compensate somebody just for raising money. With a
couple of exceptions. The first is if someone is a broker dealer, that's a different status recognized by the SEC. See,
most broker dealers aren't going to touch a deal that’s under $25 million raise, and they have a lot of fees and stuff.

And that's not just because they're greedy. That's because it's a full on registration usually, so it just cost money to
September 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Deals
and Ded ...

@ Mon, 9/27 9:47AM @ 56:26

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

deal, syndication, question, accredited, investors, raise, private placement, people, exemption, dave, mauricio, attorney, money,

ppm, meaning, person, agreement, point, class, general solicitation

SPEAKERS

Brad Niebuhr, Robert, John Graham, Kelly Fischer, Jay Johnson

Robert 00:02

All right, welcome syndication mentoring club members, it's our September 2021. Ask the mentors call for deals and
deal structures lots going on in the world happy you can make time to watch either live today lots folks live or on the
replay for this call, which we try to do once a month. Love to have questions that come in, and essentially just be a
question. It could be a deal, it can be a sample of a structure, we can pick through stuff. So you're welcome to do
that in advance. We do have a couple of questions that have been submitted. | don't see the members that have
submitted yet Oh, here, ones coming in now. So that's good. But if you do have a question, you can wait, you can
hold it, and then subject to availability in the hour, we might be able to get to it. And hopefully I'll still have time for
those today. But if you submitted in advance, then | could do a little research and be prepared. So one of these I'm
fairly prepared for so we'll probably go through the question even if the person who asked it doesn't join us. But let's
go ahead and get to our questions. So your question, again, can be submitted in advanced or it could be submitted
after the fact. And first of all, | see Kelly Fisher is with us. Good to see you over the weekend, Kelly. You submitted a
question?

Kelly Fischer 01:23

Yes. So my question was, is, where does it cut off time from when you're doing a deal where you want to change from
a partnership or operating agreement? What's the amount of partners or people involved where you'd need to go to
a ppm? Okay, excellent question. And this happens a lot. In fact, we meet people to syndication event that are doing
a partnership or a joint venture or a side deal, they aren't thinking of it as a syndication, so they haven't done full
private placement memorandum. And sometimes you don't. So you can have a handshake, you're gonna have a
written operating agreement between partners. But here's the big picture. So I'll take kind of a long way around,
which hopefully will not only answer the question, but give folks some food for thought. And that's the end purpose
of the syndication. If you're raising money so that you can have a group of passive investors that don't do anything,
but put funds in, and therefore their liability is limited. And you and your partners are on the active side, where you're
doing the work, overseeing the professionals qualifying for loans, all the things that incur potential liability, then a
syndication can be a great way to kind of separate those two things. So if you're aren't if you aren't doing that, so
Kelly, you're a builder, you got two guys, one owns some land, another guy has a construction company, he's going to

come in and get involved and You three are going to do a project. I'm guessing that doesn’t ever have to be a private
the work, putting their name on it, having their license number at risk, all that stuff, so it's not going to be free, but
you can often get a reduced rate of overdue if the work is reduced. Pretty simple. Now if your attorney says
absolutely not that's probably a hint about how they feel about you as a client. So because remember what else
happens with ppm Number two? Is you happen. all your questions all your interfacing, | need this document. And
that's all that it still happens. And review of your executive summary all the things they do. So could they? Could they
do that? Is there a template you can go through? That's a great question that was Pascals first question is a template
you can go through, there's a template, in the final section of the syndication workbook that Reese's put in there, |
wouldn't call it a template in that it's not designed for you to take it and use it. It's not electronic, it's a printed out
pretty light private placement. And it has some exhibits that aren't complete for you to get an idea about what else
is in a private placement. But it’s a great place to start read through it and understand it. I'm sure there are other
club members who would be more than willing to make copies of their private placement memorandum, especially
for ones that are done, already fully funded, and in the process to make those available. And I've seen some of that
chatter on the on the board. So if you are interested in that you can reach out to some members, | know that's
happened before. | know an inner circle, we do a lot of that everybody looks over everybody else's deal just to give
feedback and understand where everybody is, | can be a better team made a better support better help if | know
what you're doing. Right. So, but that's a good place to start. And some attorneys will provide that for you if you're
thinking about doing business with them, typically watermark and all that stuff, which you can understand why it is
their intellectual property. And then there’s a question about what's the average time to process of PPM? That's a
good question. That's a big it depends. Because what it depends on is a couple things. It depends on the complexity
of your deal. Because if you are say doing Eric shelleys, co2 scrubbing equipment, ppm for the first time, when Eric
did that, for the first time, that thing was like given birth, just a ton of different things to get your mind around,
starting with the executive summary. And Mauricio leash, | don't know, but every securities attorney, but he wants to
be involved at that level. So he, he’s not writing that for you. But he wants to see what you're saying. And he's going
to give you some massaging and some wordsmithing. And some ideas about it. If you’ve been through that process
and the ratio or another securities attorney, you probably expected that basically, once you've got your executive
summary to a point where your attorney like it's like said, then they'll craft the full ppm. | don't think I’ve ever seen
what happened under two weeks. Sometimes it can be four or five, | said it depends on the deal living it depends on
is the workload of the attorney, just how busy they are, how big their team, and then how responsive you are, when
they need things. And then how long it takes for you to get your mind around it. I'm going to suggest that you always
read every word of your private placement every time, maybe not a lot of fun. But once you've read through it, you
get your mind around it. The reason you want to read it is so when a prospect asks, they walk in, you walk into the
house, and they say oh, | just got a couple of questions, or they open up your ppm and these the highlighting and
little tabs. So they go, | have a question about this. Let's make sure that's not the first time you've seen that
document. Right? I’m not expecting you to memorize it. But if you can look at it and go, Okay, this is the section
where we're explaining blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And what this paragraph means the way | understand it, that's
the wiggle room, you're not the attorney is this. If you're not sure, either we can get your attorney on the phone with
my attorney, or I'm Welcome. I’m happy to get my attorney on with you. And he can answer that. But if you're not
satisfied with that answer, you motor bring your own counsel. So that’s why you want to read the whole document,
but time just just depends on the deal. It's a simple deal. And if it's that third time you've done the same kind of
turnkey syndication, it’s gonna be fast, faster anyway. All right. Who else has a question today rather than chatted?
Oh, | see a hand raised. Oh, is that you, Kelly? And that already answered?

Kelly Fischer 29:12

| had another one. But okay. | don't want to take up all the show. I'm sorry. No, it's good fire away. So this is just on
the follow up on the last and that last question. I've never done a ppm. So once the attorneys got it all it's done, it’s

prepared, then it’s done. You don't have to submit it to the SEC or any go through any process like that.

NM ~L wu NOA.9N9
do. But if you've got a person who's very much willing to participate, it is quite possible to bring somebody along who
raises money for you. Now, in the past, our companies have had someone in charge of investor relations, that person
isn't raising money, they're not raising money from their list. They're not asking people for their order, that's more of a
person that can help get questions answered point to the right, people get the documents people need, they're just
like your right hand. Once you get so busy in syndication that you need help. That's often a first time person.
However, we have seen people get to the point in somebody's syndication company where they become a pivotal
part. And they are raising money. So they can earn an owner and ownership percentage. But here's where you have
to be careful. It's exactly what we're just talking about with Brad and Emily, doing a deal with Eric on co2 scrubbing,
is that there has to be a material participation that isn't just about the capital, meaning even if you were great, we
had a huge database, you were awesome on the phone, you can close people like crazy, you're better than jerky
boys, | mean, you it’s possible for you to do that job, but you can't do it and get paid a percentage of the fee. You
really can’t even do it and get paid a salary. So you got to do something, you gotta have some bring somebody on
board that's performing more substantial work, and a greater variety of work. So again, not the expert on it. But just
know that there are ways to do it for the right candidate. This wouldn't be someone that's going to blow into town
and raise money for you for a project. It's going to be you know, someone who would be a good fit in your corporate
culture who could help in a variety of ways who maybe wants to learn the business, you can see being an eventual
partner or protege, that person you could come to a financial arrangement, you would always want to make sure
that their compensation is not tied in any way to the amount of money they bring in. And herein lies the rub. Often
we see bright eyed bushy tailed syndicators partner up, and one is going to raise the money and one has the deal.
And then pretty soon the one that has to do realizes the other one isn't raising any their money, and they have to go
out and raise the money. And they do to get the ball over the line because it's usually their deposit or their
intellectual property or their relationships at risk. And now they sit back and go, Well, that's not fair, you have half
the deal, and | did 90% of the work. Well, welcome to having a partner. But it's why it's tricky. You wouldn't give a
person like that instant ownership, but it can't be based on how much money they raised. She got Get creative about
it. And | think a lot of it does have to do with the whole you're trying to feel who you need. You know, we're all good
at certain things. And if you're bringing on someone to do some of the things you're not good at, then you can figure
out a home for them on your team. delegating the parts of the business we don't like sounds really good on paper.
But I'll tell you what investor relations is one of the key functions and raising the capital is one of the key functions. If
you delegate that too far away, then you have just delegated the power twice and I'm sure he would tell you this if he
was out on this call Kenny McElroy has brought in people to work with him on interfacing with clients. And they've
gone off and formed their own investment companies. And now they have, you know, a relationship with that client.
Some of those clients hear from them when they hear from Kenny so I'm not accusing anyone of anything. And I'm
sure Kenny had the right agreements in place. He's also kind of an abundant thinker, but you just have to be careful
when you bring anybody on. But we'll all be watching anxiously as ratio updates us with any change in that. But for
now be on the safe side, you really shouldn't do anything. Don’t send them on a cruise, don't take them to
Disneyland. Don't even take them out for too lavish of a meal if they refer you to somebody, doesn't mean they can't
be on your team to do some work. But and you might visit with Eric about that, or Brad and Emily about that,
because they spent a bunch of time figuring out the roles and responsibilities. We won't do it today cuz we're out of
time, but it’s certainly something to think about. All right, everybody. Well, gosh, thanks for being here today. This has
been awesome. appreciate you guys coming and chime in. If you're watching the recording, hopefully you learned
something today and next one’s call. | think it's the last week of the month, but you'll get the information about that
here shortly. In the meantime, have a great rest of your day. And we'll see you next time. Bye, everybody. Thanks,
everybody. Thank you. Thanks for being here.
and I'm interested in understanding that. So | reached out to the team to see whether or not there was a spot on the
portal for people to communicate, hey, I'm actively in a deal. And I'm taking this type of deal. And here, you can look
at it and go from there. And they had said that probably | should just work in the forum, to put in a question and to
go and get the information that way. What | was wondering was is Is there any other more formalized squat where
other SMC members are communicating with other SMC members about Yeah, I've got this deal and this is what's
going on. And | know that | have to be conscious of people who want to advertise or don't want to advertise, but I'm
looking for your words of advice on that.

© Robert 35:03

All right, john, great question. So on the platform, it’s primarily educational. So when we do have someone replace
any kind of document, whether it’s executive summary, non disclosure, English sharing, it's just for purposes of
education, we don't use the platform to solicit for investors from each other. How we solicit each other is through
personal relationships, showing up at the meetups, getting to know people talking over lunch, if it turns out that you
and somebody else are compatible, and they have a deal, and they need another 100 grand and you're thinking, hey,
that'd be a great way to get some exposure. Great. We do not have in our membership agreement, any prohibition
from that. And everything else we've ever done, we've always had a pro prohibition from, you know, meeting under
our roof. And if not prohibited, then at least a big old claim out that says, Our carve out that says if you meet under
our roof, and something happens bad that's on you. And that's still a part is still true that is in there, but not the fact
that you don't you can't solicit each other, we encourage our income members to get to know each other. But | don't
believe there's a place on the on the forum for that. There is investor registry, where we'll start to see some of those
types of deals once they pass a couple of level levels of vetting, meaning a brand new syndicators going to probably
get their first deal on investor registry. But once you're on your fourth or fifth or sixth deal and you've had a few
payout, then you might we would certainly consider that. And that'll be a way to reach our larger audience as well as
folks in the club, primarily in our club focused IT folks that want to do this syndication, but this weekend, about 15%
of the people were there to learn how to passively invest. So it's a great opportunity for folks who have that, you
know, that's as their primary motive. But there's not a place where there's an active deal. As far as a place where
there's a bunch of examples. That's a good question. Not sure. Not that I've seen. Does anybody else have any
feedback on that anyone who's seen somebody else's ppm on on the the platform or anything like that? Yeah, | think
| would encourage some of you are folks that have done a number of syndications. Or if you're listening to the replay,
and that's you, that'd be a fun community call to host, hey, I'm going to take you through my last private placement,
and just go through kind of soup to nuts. | think maybe we'll do that on one of these calls. We'll have that prepared
so that if we find ourselves with no questions, that would be a fun thing to do. Or maybe that's just a good topic to
do to go through a complete, you know, soup to nuts. Not just private placement, but kind of all of the collateral and
workflow involved in putting the deal together. Alright, thanks, john. All right, who else has a either a comment on

something? let's say somebody has their hand raised Jay, Jay Johnson.

@ Jay Johnson 37:58

here Oh, Robert, can you hear me? All right, | hear you. Hey, we're just we're working on ratios office right now doing
our first syndication we elected to start with Dave working on ATM deal, simply because it’s easy to understand, for
folks to kind of get some experience we come along his resume and such. And | know, Brad's working with Emily or |
mean with Eric, and, you know, maybe some other turnkey folks on here. So I'd be curious, some opinion, I'm trying to
as much as absolute possible, limit the spread between what we can offer our investors in a fund to fund
comparatively to what Dave can offer his directly. | can't get the pro forma to come out exactly what Dave has the
same amount raised with the exact same payouts because I'll have the economies of scale that he has. And my
question is, | know it's it's gonna be subjective, everybody's opinion. But I'd be curious, your perspective, I've got it
down to the IRR would be about maybe a one and a quarter percent one and a half percent lower than what David's

and my question is, obviously, the attorneys talk to us about what value are we bringing above him? And, and | listed
placement. And your securities counsel will help you on this, we've done four or five deals with Mauricio that we did
not do private placements. In hindsight, we got to a point where he said, You know what, it’s not that much more to
do a private placement of these are pretty big deals. So it wasn’t about the cost was about that added layer of
protection. The biggest thing that protects you in the ppm is the suitability questionnaire, and the risk factors, you
can have those things outside of a private placement. Like it's always good to point out the risks. Most local real
estate boards have some sort of disclosure in their area where they are, they specifically make sure that the agents
are disclosing whatever risks may be or if you're in a mello roos zone or something like that. So always good to have
risk factors up front. But it really in my mind, it is when | get to more than one passive investor. Now | think we all
want to seek the protections of a ppm again, you don't need it. If they're all accredited, you could have 10 passive
investors all accredited, you technically don’t need to have a full private placement, you do need an agreement. And
you do need some disclosures. And again, securities counsel will work with that. And the reason you would want to
consider not doing it is time and money speed more than time we have to get it done as quickly. As you know, it can
take a while to get your documentations. Now that could just be because the market strong, or it could be because
you're in contract, you got to close in six weeks. So if that's the case, you can probably come up with a legal
agreement that does most of the job of a PBM without taking that burden some document and having it re read and
edited and all the things you have to do. So at some point, it does make sense that you, you know, get to the point
where it's clear, you need a private placement, you know that the other example of it is a simple, easy, low dollar
deal. Three people get together and buy a single family house that needs work. And one guy knows the
neighborhood and scoped out the deal but he’s more than just a bird dog or a wholesaler he like knows the market
and has the vision for increasing it. Maybe know some of the trades people you got another person that were there
do all that kind of construction. They own a rehab company, they don't know the neighborhood as well, but they
know materials and they can source stuff and then your third person, well he or she’s the money. Well, you do a deal
like that. And it's a single family house, it's hard to justify the cost of a private placement. So if they're all accredited,
or at least the person with the money is accredited, you can probably figure out an agreement that'll work but this
isn't to to push your attorney aside. You want your attorney involved anytime there’s more than you involved in a
deal. Once we cross over that line, we talk about syndication from your personal ownership and portfolio into raising
capital. Whatever it looks like your best friend from college, your sister, always good to have an agreement. All right,
if you're just joining us welcome. It’s ask the mentors deal on deal structure. We had a couple of calls that were

submitted that first one from Kelly, thanks for that. | don't see Ben Dickie, is Ben on the line.

A 10:29
It would be possible he’s signed it into something else? Well, Ben had a question that | think we'll cover quickly. But
they'll give you some resource where you can cover it in in better detail. So Ben asks this, can we discuss converting a
raise to a 506c? And how do you messenger message your investors during the development? All right, so some of
you were with us at the July, quarterly meetup. And at that meetup, Mauricio covered this in great detail. Now, we
have not yet edited that and put it on the platform. So because Ben asked, and because we're recording, and
because | think he can get this information faster than he can, what's going to be in that platform, it'll be there. And
it's good stuff. I'm going to cover kind of the basics. So with the full knowledge and support of mauricia. These are his
slides. So I'll tell you what he shared with us. So the short answer, he brought this to us in this topic that that is can |
take what | started as a 506B. So a 506B means | can have up to 35 non accredited investors, unlimited number of
accredited investors, and | cannot advertise. But | also can accept the investors proclamation about whether or not
they're accredited, and or sophisticated, if they have enough personal knowledge or their knowledge with their team
of professionals, CPAs attorneys to be able to make a decision on their own to invest. So if you could do that, that's
506 B. You can't advertise it. And you don't need to have all non accredited. Can you start that raise? And then
transition over to an accredited raise a 506c? And for many years, the answer has been no. And just recently, the
answer has become Yes. So how do we do that? Well, there's this time period where you've got a 506b, you started
the raise, you found your project, you put your team together, you intended to be a 506b, you wanted to take non
accredited, you didn't think you have to advertise. And so you start this well, as long as you can create a distinct
firewall that we'll talk about in a minute. It is now possible. And | won't bore you with all of the legal ease, Mauricio
