until we have one lady all gentlemen the rest of it. Don’t see Emily. | guess that's it. Okay. All right, gang. Well,
appreciate you Good call. And we'll see you on the next one. Hopefully see it New Orleans. Thank you. All right. Bye
Bye. Hi.
that you have something they're interested in to start the conversation. That's the starting point, meet them where
they're at. And then through questioning, you begin to ask them questions that lead them to start thinking about
what you're interested in talking about. You don't tell them you ask them, the person who's asking the questions is in
charge, the person who's answering the question is being led around the conversation by their notes. Stephen, | just
had this conversation the other day in an inner circle coaching call, because he's getting ready to go in and visit with
an investor friend of his he's known for 20 years, and they've been talking for 20 years, guys never invested with step.
And steps a little nervous going in, because this is a guy of substance. And you know, it just comes back to the same
old basic technique. But you got to meet them with where they're at and what they're interested in, you got to listen
a lot more than your talk. And you don't have to have anything to say, other than Oh, that's really interesting. You
know, but you'll find that you have more to say, than you realize, especially if you're doing your homework, you know,
one or the other. In build your brand, build your network, one of the other slides was talking about the idea of being a
conduit, the conduit is somebody that just things pass through. So you get a good idea, you pass it along, you get a
problem from somebody and you go work on a solution, you hear an interesting piece of news, you share it, you meet
an interesting person or you attend an interesting event. | hope all of you are doing everything you can to attend the
New Orleans investment conference, because you get to spend four days listening to a bunch of people talk about a
bunch of stuff, and you get to go home with a story that says, hey, | just spent four days listening to a bunch of smart
people talk about a bunch of interesting stuff. One of the things | heard about was this, what do you think about it?
Now you've tossed it to them? And they may not think anything? Or they may think, Oh, I'd heard about that, or not
much. What did you learn? And they'll they'll reverse you. And they'll want to get you talking? And you go ahead and
feed that and say, Well, | learned this a little bit, you know, and then how do you think that affects you or whatever.
So you have to begin to think about how to get them talking. It's always it's always you want to have open ended
questions. So you get people talking, and and they're talking, you're listening for those key words. | want | need |
don't like this bothers me. I'm frustrated. | hope I'm concerned. Right? It's basically greed and fear, greed and fear.
Those are the two investor emotions. You're listening for key words to hear. Is somebody expressing some concern, or
are they hoping to achieve something? Most people of substance are worried right now they're worried about rising
taxes, they’re worried about volatile financial markets, they're worried about bubbles. They’re worried about the
impact of China. They're worried about lockdowns. | mean, there's just a lot to worry about. And people who have
something to lose, generally worry anyway because they have something to lose people who don't have anything.
You got to sell them hope and opportunity. The problem is as syndicators we can't really do much with people They
don't have anything. So it’s fine. If you want to sell the get rich quick course or you want to, you know, partner with
somebody to invest in individual properties, you know, maybe they bring your credit score and some documental
income. And you want to partner with them by, you know, providing down payments and doing some equity shares.
But I'm going to guess the vast majority of you are going to be trying to look for and building relationships with and
penetrating networks of accredited investors, people that have high incomes, they have high net worths, they have a
portfolio already probably mostly paper assets, and subject to all of the ups and downs and uncertainties of that.
And as you can begin to make a case for real assets and some of the benefits of real assets. And you begin to let
people know that you have connections and experience in that space, through storytelling, through social posts that
show you at certain places with certain people doing certain things. Don't overplay it, just give them little bits and
pieces of information as they're trying to figure out who you are. You're painting a picture, but you're giving them the
raw materials to put the puzzle together, you know what the cover looks like, of the puzzle box you're doing, but they
don't. And so what you're doing is you're giving them pieces, and then as they begin to figure out who you are, they
paint the picture when they conclude who you are. It's gospel, if you tell them who you are, it’s sales pitch. Let that
let them do the work. Okay, so Scott, Florida, couple questions.

© Scott Florida 36:27

Yeah, it should be real quick. But so |, we produce a website and then produce some business cards. And, you know, |
got my cards back, and | start handing them out. And my card says, founder and CEO on it, and I'm like, oh, does
that sound presumptuous? Does that sound cocky? So | just want a little feedback on that piece of the puzzle. What
are your thoughts on that?
him and like, what am | going to get out of this? And it’s just the whole thing for our whole group, it's what value are
we going to bring to somebody else? And that's gonna in turn, you know, it’s gonna get on you. So that's, that's the

whole thing. So it kind of flipped that around. It's not asking somebody to be there. It's like, hey, if | want this guy to
be at our meetup, how can | bring him value? So it makes him want to be there?

Russ 1:01:39

It's really what we're talking about with Michael is the idea is who's the who's who are the influencers want to the
influencers need? What do they need, gaming wants more customers, he wants more exposure, if you bring him an
audience, and that's true for everybody. | mean, almost everybody wants more exposure. If you can bring somebody
in, that's complimentary to what you're doing. It's how you build it, that's how we built it. And you've already got
relationships, you've got people right now in the group that, you know, you can make stars, people may not know

who SAP is, but if you think about it, SAP has pretty good credibility. He's been on several shows several podcasts,
you know, he's, he’s been around a long time, and he gets invited to do stuff. You bring him on, like, it's a superstar.
And people who don't know are gonna think, oh, wow, such a superstar. And then you highlight the things that SAP is
done, and how you guys are in this program together, or whatever you want to do. And then you just have to bring it
back to, you know, whatever your your call to action is, and | keep it light, right, don't make it a sales pitch. Really,
what you're trying to do is give people a reason in your in your list, to bring their friends, because remember, and this
goes back, you have to understand remember, again, secrets of successful syndication, build your brand, build your
network, six degrees of separation. If you know 10, people who know 10, people you don't know and you give those 10
people a compelling reason to invite those 10 people that you don't know, to anything you're doing and you end up
with those people on your list. Right, that’s what | use the firearms training for. It doesn't matter what it is in what
matters is that you work through the people you have a relationship with to get to the people you don't have a
relationship with, by bringing tons of value, and then not abusing that relationship once you are into that second tier
relationship. So nobody ever regrets having opened up their, their their database, their reputation, and use their
influence, to introduce somebody to you as long as you're a gentleman. As long as you add value. As long as
everything's permission based. They're going to continue to do that. And you know, Robert and | are living proof of
that. How many people come back to secrets of successful syndication over and over and over and bring friends that
our whole our whole marketing philosophy is based on that. Could we be bigger if we used other techniques? Yeah, in
terms of gross numbers. But Robert, and | don't care about big numbers, we care about great quality, | don’t have
time to sift through a bunch of losers to find a few winners, I'd rather just put the bait in the water that brings
winners. And you guys know when you're in one of our events that almost every conversation is is with a quality
person that you're you just wish you could stay in the room longer and meet more people because they're all great.
It's like It's like fishing in a barrel. | mean, it's just wonderful. But that’s because of the way we go about it. And you
can do the same thing, right? There's nothing that we've done that you can't do and | hope you do it 10 times bigger.
10 times better Dave's Luke has raised a heck of a lot more money than Robert than | ever had. So is buck Joffrey.
Great. | mean, vanta | hope every one of you kicked Dave's looks Toshi. | think that would be wonderful. Right? |
mean, just a handful of our students was over a billion dollars just just just Ryan Gibson. Eric Shelly, Buck, Joffrey,
Andrew, Illinois, and Dave's UK Just those five people put them all together it's a billion and so it's a whole lot more
than that already. Now we're not anywhere near where we want to go but you know, a billion is a good start. All
right. Okay, so we are going to call that a wrap sorry we went a little bit over but hopefully it was worth it. Thanks
everybody for being here. And Stacy and | are working on an announcement for everybody but especially for you
new folks. So hopefully in the next week or two, you'll see that come out but we want to help you get off to a quick
start. And we're also going to be doing some stuff lessons learned from our first year of syndicating so if you're in
here and you've kind of moved along a little bit you've got some lessons you've learned you say boy if | could go talk
to my my beginner self a year ago What would | do | wish | would have understood you know, and it's not going to
be so much things that we didn't already say it's things that Robert and I've said but somehow we haven't found a
way to say it so it really gets through. So if you guys can help us do that. Let us know. Anyway. Okay, Ladies, ladies
| had something | do have a question. Just as somebody who's only had people | know say they want to invest in
order to start building a brand. And they're like some basic rule of thumb steps. First, you build your list or build your
content first, or create your website first? Or where would you start for somebody starting from scratch to mass

market? What are some of the best first steps?

Russ 49:06

Well, I'll tell you this. | think one of the great advantages | have in life is | grew up in business before there was an
internet. Before there was email before there were websites. Before they were contact management software. So |
had a ring binder, A to Z with people's names and contact sheets, | taped their business card on it. And | keep a
communication log of everything we talked about. | had index cards that | would use to organize leads by what they
were interested in. And | just put the name of people who were interested in this or interested in that by category and
little ring but little little index card box. And then when | wanted to know about that person, | say, well who do | know
who's interested in this? And | go to that area of my index card, | pull it out. And I'd say oh, this this person, what do |
know about the person | would go to my ring binder, okay, that's a sophisticated you can raise millions of dollars just
on that system right there. Right. So | think that the most important thing is that you're talking to people, and
networking. And so again, going back to how to win friends and influence people and build your brand, build your
network, if you go to How to Win Friends and Influence People and go to the section on influencers, right, who's my
target market? What do they need? can | provide it? Which is the question that's not on there, but you need to, you
know, figure that out, right? Is that is that a need | want to be involved in solving, but then who influences him? And
then when you think about the influencers, where do the influencers congregate? Where can | get in front of
influencers? And how can | influence an influencer? So Eric Shelley figured out that CPAs have people coming to
them with tax problems, and they need tax solutions. He said, Gee, | have a tax solution. Therefore, | can explain that
to a CPA and the CPA by making that one relationship can open up a whole bunch of relationships. So kind of one
thing is look for leverage, be strategic, but but ask yourself, How can | either build or penetrate networks of people?
And what do | bring to the party? So the worksheet in How to Win Friends and Influence People is think of influencers
you already know. And everybody, you know, is an influencer? It's a question of how much influence they have, and
who they influence, because everybody has a social circle, and a reputation. And then you can decide people that
you think are your best prospects? And then you have to ask yourself, Well, how do they perceive me now? How do
they need to perceive me going forward? And how do | begin to paint a picture in their mind targeting their
perceptions, so they begin to see me as | need to be seen, in order for them to trust me and eventually use their
influence on my behalf. I'm going through that right now with the firearms training school, | was out there on
Tuesday, continuing to work in, you know, they have a big real estate development project out there. I'm a real estate
guy. Up until this time, and I've been involved in the school for eight years, | had no idea | was a real estate guy. They
think of me as a guy that is, you know, I’m bringing a lot of people to come to their gun training, because that's what
they need. And | was there meeting with them about their ammo factory, because that's what they need. And we can
syndicate that for them if in fact, it goes anywhere. But whether it does or doesn't, what they see me doing is making
concerted effort to help them in the things they need. Right? So but they have a huge list 250,000 members a million
plus on their email list. If | can win that influencer. That's a lot of influence. And those gun guys are probably gold
guys in real estate guys and tax problem, guys, and | have a lot of solutions for that database asset protection, if |
can get that database open. Opening Brian London's database was huge. Robert Kiyosaki, Robert Helms and | are
going in tomorrow morning to record with Robert and Kim. They invited us we just got a call from NTD. It can't
remember it's a it's an alternative news. If you've been following any of the news and TD you can look them up to 16
million viewers. Brian London introduced us to them said, Hey, would you do the interview with on their business
channel to help promote the New Orleans investment conference? Absolutely. But the reason we got that call is
because Brian knows that we have been very diligent and consistent in promoting the New Orleans investment
conference. But that took years, was it worth it? Yeah, because five years from now you're going to be in this
business? Probably. | hope so. | think you hope so. So don't don't hesitate to begin to plant those seeds. So you have
to have a strategy. Again, this is not mass marketing. This is human. You know, if you have 10 people that are

influencers, and each one of them influences 100 people, then you have a potential list of 1OOO plus have the right
kind of people and all you had to do is develop 10 of the right relationships. How much time and effort is each one of
those relationships worth a lot. And so you deal with it individually. You have to ask yourself, who is this influencer?
Who do they influence? What does the influencer need? How can | help them? And then just make your business
about helping them and trust in due time through the law of reciprocity. They're going to turn around and help you.
Does that answer the question?

ro ) Michael Meade 54:44

Yeah, it sure does. Oddly enough, as a former CPA, | got a CPA events that we're going to so that’s great. How to just
influence those folks.

© Russ 54:52

Yeah, again, there's no homerun. There's no I'm gonna do this one thing and you know, The world is going to open up
to me doesn't work that way. This is farming, you're just planting seeds, some will grow, some won't grow. Some have
the potential to grow very big. When that happens, you can’t waste time. Pruning the trees that are never going to
bear fruit. Just focus on the ones that will, but you don't know which ones those are. You just got to get the seeds
planted every day, every week, you have to have activity, if you're not out there interacting with people, starting
relationships, starting conversations, learning, keeping good notes being strategic about how does this person see

me? How do they need to see me? What do | need to do next?

6) Staci Gray 55:40

| want to chime in because he's a CPA. So I'm assuming on the disc profile, he’s probably a high C. um, you're it’s
going to if you're going to figure out a lot about your voice by getting into conversations. So he’s saying be strategic,
farm, find the right people, talk to them all that great. Just start talking with people because you're gonna uncover a
lot by just having conversations, even if you don't have it right. Even Dave Zook. | think most of you are at the
syndication summary. He got up on stage and said, | left a meeting going, why did | say that? That's going to happen
and it's going to be okay, but that's where you're going to learn. that’s those are the conversations you need to have
to really learn what is going to be the right messaging for that right person.

© Russ 56:28

So a couple quick questions. Kevin Wrigley is the gray beard PowerPoint available on the SMC platform? No. But |
think it was videotaped. And | don’t know what the status of that videotape is Staci. But I'd like to get my hands on it.

@®) Staci Gray 56:41

So | don't even know what this gray beard video is.

© Russ 56:44

So on the secrets, | mean, and on the summit, my opening presentation, which | think went pretty well, although it’s
hard to take it seriously, because | was, | was, | was in my gray beard pirate outfit. And people thought | was going to
be a character. But | was just myself standing there in a gray beard pirate outfit, but the content | think was pretty
the concepts that | understand and apply them to whatever your situation is, and and i'm able usually to work
through some basic guidelines of what to do and how to approach a problem. Because the techniques you know,
and the patterns of principles are proven.

Staci Gray 14:21

Yeah, Sep something that you could do to instead of if you don’t want to, if they haven't invested with you and
picking up the phone doesn't feel appropriate. The other thing you can do is say hey, we're you can send them a
personal email saying, Hey, we're updating our communication and we want to make sure that we're sending you
things that you're most interested in, we have some deals coming and if you have an investor questionnaire or some
type of profile thing you can ask for their feedback without you Without you coming to them saying hey, | saw that

you unsubscribe, which sometimes doesn't feel the greatest for some people. It’s like you're watching them.

Russ 14:55

Yeah, good point. That's that's really smart. And just along that line for those of you that are new, especially if you've
not been to REFA - Real Estate fund Alliance. There is an investor questionnaire there which if you register, you can
go through and fill that out. And then part of that is, is when deals come into the real estate guys, actually, I'm sorry,
| got that wrong. It's patterned after the investor registry, which is the exact same program on the real estate guy. So
we created the real estate, the real estate guys investor registry, so our listeners can tell us what they're interested in.
So we can direct them to the sponsors that we have, that provide the types of opportunities people are specifically
interested in. We really did that kind of as the precursor to being able to generate interest for the syndication
mentoring club, but we don't want the real estate guys brand to be overtly the front end of driving business into the
syndication mentoring club. And so we created the real estate fund Alliance as a marketing Co Op for all of you to
be a part of bi as your as your syndication businesses mature and you have deal flow. And if everybody is driving
traffic through whatever marketing into refa. And that's what the New Orleans investment conference is all about.
Then Then when people fill out those questionnaires, it's nothing's too intrusive. The most personal question we ask
is, are you accredited or not accredited? Other than that, it’s really just trying to understand are you investing for
income capital gains, privacy tax advantages? Are you predisposed towards a certain asset class? What type of term
you know, long term, short term using retirement money, stuff like that? So you know, you don't have to use that. But
if you're kind of trying to figure out how do | profile my, my investor database, you might use that as a kind of a
template to get you started, and then customize it based on what you're doing. And remember, when you're
interviewing people, if all you're doing is sorting through a bunch of great opportunities to find the one that fits what
you're doing, you've missed the whole point of the conversation. The whole point of the conversation isn't to get your
need filled, it's, it's to uncover as many of their needs as you can uncover, and then look for ways to either develop an
offering in your own syndication business that will service them or introduce them to somebody in your network, but
it's about you helping them solve their problems. And if you look through your database and find out there's a whole
bunch of people who are interested in having a particular problem solved, and you don't have that offering yet, you
might think, Hey, | might have an opportunity here if | come up with a deal, or if | can find a deal that | could sub
syndicate that would scratch that itch. Because again, if you were at the secrets of successful syndication this last
time you saw that the two biggest moneymakers, the two biggest fundraisers are guys that have found a way to
solve tax problems. Well, duh, who has tax problems, people who have a lot of money or experience a big capital
gain, right? And that's all available money to be deployed. So it’s the same lesson that Kiyosaki gave us on the
summit at sea where he said, Look, guys, the problem is, you're pitching me the things you're interested in, but I'm not
interested in what you're interested in my problems are different than your problems. Your problem is you're trying to
figure out how to become a multimillionaire. My problem is, I've got $100 million, and I've got a big tax problem, you
bring me a tax solution, I'm going to be a lot more interested than | am in an ROI solution. And of course, you know,
when you have that, then all sudden that tax solution becomes part of your ROI becomes part of your pitch. And all
sudden you you have a way to make some profit because you don't have to shave the ROI down. So where you're not
to send out tax stuff, or whatever. | think the integration is easier to do than to try to work around software that is
inadequate and one of those major functionaries. So Staci, I'm going to guess you probably have some things to say
on this topic. Once you're unmuted, I'm unmuted

6) Staci Gray 23:40

Can you hear me?

© Russ 23:41

Oh yeah, | can now.

@) Staci Gray 23:42

I'm gonna adjust it from two sides. So, um, | understand the technical operational business side of it. And when you're
building and scaling a business, it’s easy to get overwhelmed with all the technology, all the tools, everything that
you could possibly use to do it. And Matthew, | know you can't talk but you said you're new. So if you haven't raised
any capital, you don't have a list, | would not be focusing so much on what tool to use, you can do it ina
spreadsheet. For everyone else who has started to raise capital and are getting overwhelmed by the amount of
investors they have in the the workflow is breaking down and you can't do it at scale. Then that's where infrastructure
is or you know, you're gonna you have a list, you have a warm list, you're gonna put your foot on the gas pedal, and
you're gonna go get your infrastructure set up. If you're really just not even sure what your what your syndication
business is ye, you don't even know what kind of deal or asset class you want to do. You're not sure if you're going to
co sponsor or be an operator and you're still figuring that out. Figure that out first, and then go find the tools and
research infrastructure to build it. So, Matthew, | know you can't talk but if you want to type in the chat and | don't
know where you're at, so | can't really tailor it to you. For people who are at a place where you're ready to integrate,
the software, Russ is totally correct. It is really challenging to find one that does all of it. So we have found with all of
these indicators that we work with is we use a marketing automation system, we use Infusionsoft. And then we have
integrated it with an investor portal. And there's a handoff from the marketing automation from when they express
interest, they go through investor questionnaire, you do a phone call with them, and they soft commit, when they soft
commit and get sent over to the investor portal, where then they get the NDA can sign the document, it gets
attached, they get the executive summary, then you can get on another phone call with them, document all your
notes in there, then they can actually sign their ppm and fill out the paperwork within the investor portal. And then
they get their login so they can see what deal they're in what they've committed to and what the communication is.
So we have found that you don't need a third, | think you mentioned the third one, those two typically are enough to
do your outreach marketing to get them through your funnel to the time they soft commit when they soft commit,
they move into your investor portal. And that's really where the sales management comes in. Um, and then the
business operations system that you said, | think that's more managing workload backend stuff, which we we do
through other systems like G Suite. | don't know if that answered or not yet. Well, so the third one is CRM. And I'm big
on that. Because just being in direct sales, when you're picking up the phone, and you're having conversations with
people, and you're taking notes, and you learn things. yeah, so that is you can do that inside of the investor portal.

© Russ 26:47

Okay. Yeah. And then it has a CRM component, which is fine
© Russ 10:20

Well, | mean, you can always send a personal message, you know, if they unsubscribe, you have to honor that you
have to take them off the list. If you want to pick up the phone and say, Hey, you know, we've done some business
together, you're on my list, | saw that you unsubscribed. Want to make sure I'm sending you stuff that's relevant? Or
you no longer interested in hearing from me at all? Is it that you're no longer interested in, you know, some of my
market commentary? Or whatever it is? Did you know that there are ways to unsubscribe from certain types of
communication, but not all communication? We went through that, and Stace, you know, you, you understand the
mechanics of that. But in the beginning, you know, we would lose everybody for everything. And then and then, and
then they would say, Well, | haven't gotten the newsletter in a long time, let's because you unsubscribe from, you
know, the 18 emails on the last day trying to get you to buy the secrets of successful syndication. And that's what
they weren't interested in. But they love the commentary. So Staci do want to just kind of touch on that real quick
how to how to handle that mechanically.

® Staci Gray 11:16

Yeah, so you can set up your unsubscribe link to actually be "manage my preferences,” and then create categories for
the communication that you send so you send a newsletter or an investment offering, or clues in the news or
whatever it is, and they can check the checkbox for which items they want to be subscribed to and which ones they
don'tt. That way you can keep them on the list for the things that they're interested in but not on the list for the
things that they're not that helps a lot also we have found when kind of doing what you're talking about stuff finding
people who have unsubscribed sometimes they're on your list more than once and they're like no | just unsubscribe
that email I'm still on your list with this email and so it actually sometimes helps clean up your the duplicates in your
in your CRM. To get that clarity sometimes people aren't truly unsubscribing they're just in your system twice or three
times.

© Russ 12:12

Again this is a this is a person to person, this is a relationship business. This isn't a mass marketing business this is a
sales business. Sales is one on one. If you've been in my sales training you know marketing is about is talking to a lot
of people all at once and talking about generic things that appeal to the masses. Sales is about having a personal
conversation about somebody's personal situation, personal goals, personal interest, personal concerns, and
developing a personal plan for them. The more personal it feels the more effective it's going to be from a sales
perspective. So if this somebody unsubscribes cept this done business with you before that gives you the perfect
opportunity to pick up the phone and as you're trying to qualify what they are or are not interested in of course
that's the what and what always follows the what in sales? the Why. Why are you interested? Why are you not
interested what's changed you know, make it personal get to know them use your sales techniques from How to Win
funds and Influence People ask the broad questions get them talking, the more you understand about their heart
and mind their needs, wants desires goals and objectives and the why underneath the why that they're doing
whatever they're doing are interested in whatever they're interested in, the more likely you're going to be able to
touch the heart get the heart to place that order with the brain and then when you present a solution that you can
make logical sense of you can make a compelling logical presentation to a brain that has an order that's been
placed by the heart The odds of you doing some business are high if you don't get that order, right it doesn't work so
just you know that it’s it’s always the same it once you master these basic concepts. It's always the same in every
situation you know, when | when you guys give me these things, and | just come in here naked, if you will, | don't have

any agenda, | just gonna listen to pivot off what you guys do. All they do is take the principles Patterson principles,
Russ 02:46
Okay. And that's a great question. As you might guess, the answer is going to be it depends. And part of it is

depending on you. And part of it is depending on your audience, part of it is depending on what you're putting out,
my hero in this space, the guy that | kind of emulate and look at an event conversation with this Simon black
sovereign man, Simon puts out his notes in the field every single day. I’m like, Dude, that you're a monster. | don't
know how you do that. But he does. And he found out | asked him about this, | said, Isn’t that kind of too much. He
goes actually found out | got better engagement from my list by sending something out every day. Okay. But he also
does a weekly roll up. So people can unsubscribe from the daily and just capture the weekly roll up. And of course,
everything he posts is available on his website. So people who don't want their in boss basket, pushing things to
them still have the ability to access his content based on, you know, an occasional reminder, if he writes something
that he’s just over the moon about or gets something, it gets a lot of good feedback, he may hit the list and draw it
to everybody's attention. You know, | am an information junkie. So I'm not a good, typical person. But because | tend
to stay subscribed to everything just on the chance that I'm going to see something good, but | don't read everything
that everybody sends me. So you know, you had said, Hey, you know, if people are like, hey, sending out too much
crap, well, Note to self, don't send out crap, right? Send out stuff that super valuable, send out stuff that really speaks
to the heart of your avatar. Now if you get people who unsubscribe as a result of that, that’s okay. If you're putting
stuff out that speaks right to the heart and soul of your avatar and attracts the right people, they're going to eat it
up, they're going to love it, they can’t get enough. And if someone unsubscribes because they don't like it, that's okay
too, because they're probably not somebody you're going to end up getting along with anyway. So don't be fake.
Don't be phony. Talk about who you are, what you're interested in what you're doing, but don't just put something out
to put something out, put something out because you think you've got something unique to say that they need to
hear something that reflects who you are, what you're doing your investment thesis. says, demonstrating the value
that you're adding to their life. And | think the most important component is always remember what it feels like to be
them. I've quoted this book many, many times, we haven't done the book study on it yet it's in queue, | hope for the
inner circle book, steady call. But I'd recommend everybody read the book Made to Stick by | think the heath Heath
Minh brothers, Brian and Dan, | think that's their name, but made the stick. And one of the, the probably the number
one thing that | quote all the time in that is the idea of the curse of knowledge. And the curse of knowledge means
you sell become so ingrained in what you're doing and your knowledge and your understanding of a topic, you start
the basis of a conversation at a level over the head of the people you're already trying to talk to. And so the very
premises you're building your arguments or your cases on, you've lost them at day one, the moment you've hit it. So
it's the key is context relevant, you always have to remember who you're talking to, where they're at, what they
already understand what they already are interested in. And as you're moving them around the wheel. To use Kyle
Wilson's terminology, from something they understand to something you want them to understand something they're
focused on, do something you want them to focus on, you just need to make sure that you meet them where they're
at, and pull them through instead of just asking them to make a quantum leap from wherever they are to where
you're going. And, you know, with today's technology, you can see who has clicked, who has opened, who has read.
And so you can change your messaging up to talk to those people that are really responding. And you can, you can
build more in depth. And you can keep a kind of a lighter discussion going with people that have yet to engage. So
you do have the ability to parse your list a little bit. And if if this type of messaging is a big part of your marketing,
just remember, you don't want to just do content for the sake of doing content, it’s got to be part of a bigger picture,
a bigger process. And it should be about building your brand and building your network. You're either creating stuff
that has a potential to go viral, and you're going to write stuff and encourage people to share it, you're going to have
stuff that is designed to tee them up to understand what you're doing, and why your investment makes sense. Based
on your analysis of the economy of market, a product niche and investment strategy. You could be doing things just
to demonstrate and build trust and credibility in the two most important areas ethics, and competency. And again,
I'm not a big believer in touting my own ethics. You know, | think if you just are an ethical person and be yourself,
people will will figure that out. But you definitely want to be telling stories about maybe due diligence lessons
learned. And as we learned from Kenny McElroy, sometimes delivering bad news builds trust. So it's okay to talk
openly. | mean, | was scared to death after we lost everything in 2008, to tell our audience that we lost everything
here we are a couple of gurus, you know, and it's like, and | lost everything. And | just decided that sooner or later
© Russ 36:50

Um, | don't think it matters. | mean, if it's true, that’s what matters. You know, if you feel a little uncomfortable, | think
there's two sides to that. One is you're stretching your self image. And so you're presenting yourself as somebody,
you're being who you're becoming. And that's always a little uncomfortable, nothing wrong with it. The flip side of it
is if you can't step into the role and play that role and be comfortable with it, then people will feel the incongruity in
your spirit. And they won't trust you. So it's a personal decision. Mauricio does it. Mauricio did it. You know, when he
was founder and CEO of Premier Law Group, and it was just him working out of his bedroom. Okay. And he was
comfortable with it.

©) Scott Florida 37:42

Yeah, | like | mean, the the part | like about it is the executing, you know, Chief Executive that being in the executing
part that | feel very comfortable with that because that’s what I'm doing, I'm going out and trying to make it happen.
So

© Russ 37:58

yeah, | think the only concern I'd have and everybody can chime in, right, I'm certainly not the the end all be all on
this. This is just my personal thing. But but the you know, the issue is, is that if, if someone finds out that you are
small, and you're, you're presenting yourself as big again, and this is just me and my value system, | really, really, one
of my high values is authenticity. And so | always look for little signs, somebody is trying to BS me. And | always
worry that I'm going to come across as a poser. And again, it goes back to like | said, You know, | mean, I've taken the
things that | have in my background, especially when | first started, | stretched them all the way to the outer limits of
credulous credibility. But it was all well within the realm of truth. So everything | said was factually true. And yet, | put
my very, very best foot forward over time, my knowledge, my ability, my endorsements, my positioning, | could be a
lot more, you know, less, really stretching, because | was already accepted. You know, and that'll come in time, right?
You get 1020 deals under your belt, you've made millions of dollars, even if you're just a one man band working out of
your office. And when Mauricio was saying, CEO, and founder premier Law Group, which sounds like there's a group,
right. At the same time, he was saying that even though he was a one man band, he had done a lot of deals. | mean,
he'd been our general counsel for a long time you know, he he was the lead Attorney for the the millions of dollars
that Robert and | raised. And so it wasn't like he didn't have a high level of experience. He just hadn't mastered
scaling his business. And then after he got sick, he had a, you know, come to Jesus moment. And as far as that goes,
and he got serious about building a scalable business, and now he is exactly what he’s the CEO, and he's the lead
guy of a group, and they have attorneys, and they're doing business and so he grew into that. So be who you're
becoming nothing wrong with that. So anybody else on that topic? Because that's an interesting question, you know,
Tom Hopkins in his how to master the art of selling talks about how, you know, even though you can make more
money on bigger deals, he goes, you can only go as big as you feel comfortable, | mean, feel feel like you can do, he
says, if you're if you feel like you can sell $400,000 houses, and you're and you're not going to be able to be be
confident at million dollar houses, then don't go try to sell million dollar houses. So I'll just close on that. But did
anybody else have anything they wanted to chime in on that?

&) Staci Gray 40:53

| will just add to that, um, if you when you're handing out your business card, you're undercutting yourself by saying,

"Oh, well, it says that, but”... that probably won't help. So | think Ross's point is very valid to do something that's super
congruent with what you feel is in your heart, and | Know authenticity for you, Scott is probably a huge value as well.
So if it feels incongruent, | would choose a different title. Mine says, founder and CEO, actually, | don't even have
business cards, but my email says, founder and CEO, but | also have 20 people that work for me. So and | have built
back. So | think once you, | think protecting your confidence is probably the bigger thing here than anything. If you
can confidently say founder and CEO, and you know, you're going to do deals and raise capital and serve people
and you're going to live up to that title, then do it. If you're, if it's causing you to have doubt in yourself, then choose
something else. Because people who are confident, take action, people who are not confident, don't take action. So
every little thing that you can do within yourself to boost your confidence is huge for anyone building and scaling a
business.

Russ 42:04

And |'Il double down on be who you're becoming once you decide who you're going to be. Or who you're becoming,
then be it. 24/7/365 Live it, think it, act it. You literally transform, because that's what you're doing this this for all of
us, this is a transformational business. For you to go to the level this thing gives you the capability you can't be the
same person you've been, you can't see yourself the same way you've seen yourself, doesn't mean there's anything
wrong with who you were. It's just that this is a whole new level of play. Anybody that ever played high school
football, you know, that work their way up from Pop Warner, through freshmen through JV through varsity. And if you
were fortunate enough to go to college, every level at the beginning of Camp you felt in over your head. But by the
end of the year, you were comfortable in the locker room comfortable with the guys comfortable with your role on
the field, but you had to step in, you have to get a little over your head. That's why | say it's art not science. Okay, all
right. That was good. You Scott, did you have something else? You said?

Scott Florida 43:08

Yeah, that was really helpful. Thank you. And | think at this point, we'll stick with that. | think | think we can make it
work. And | feel comfortable with it. So the other thing that | was asked | wanted to about was related a website. So
we've got a website up and, you know, at what point do you need to talk to Mauricio or somebody like that, to have
them review your website? And how often should that happen? And like the review every little detail, or how's that
work, any any guidelines you have for reviewing your website, making sure that it’s compliant.

Russ 43:43

So | think that a couple things if you are using your website to communicate about active offerings, absolutely. If
you're using your website to communicate about offerings in in in queue and progress, if you are using your website
to begin to condition the market to tee people up for an offering that’s coming, then | would say that you probably
want to have your compliance attorney review it to make sure that you understand the principles behind what works
and what doesn't work and it's like a little bit like being a child. In other words, you're going to just go poke around
under the supervision of a parent, you're going to get more nose than yeses. But but in a little while through process
of elimination, you'll quickly find out what you can do and can't do. Some of the basic concepts are you can't
condition the market and we've done videos about conditioning the market. Meaning you know, you can't you can't
do things that are pretty obvious and overtly about preparing people to be excited about an offering you're doing,
which sounds counterintuitive, but there are some things you can do. You just have to know the difference and | won't
get into the weeds because I'm not qualified but but again, ratios done that in the past. Then the other part of it is
Blue Sky laws. And this is the idea that when you're talking about the future, and you're trying to paint a rosy picture
in order to attract capital and build confidence, you have to be careful. Now, | think that it's, if you're going to be, you
know, talking about deals, closed case studies, you probably have a little bit more latitude. But even if you're posting
case studies, or deals that you've done is kind of a history, and you're putting performance in there. | think you want
September 2021 - Ask the Mentors Q&A Call on Sales
and Marke...

@ Thu, 9/30 11:01AM © 1:06:23

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

people, investor, syndication, work, deals, talking, business, unsubscribe, question, robert, influencers, marketing, conversation,

big, build, interested, person, sales, personal, understand

SPEAKERS

Sep Bekam, Brad Niebuhr, Michael Meade, Staci Gray, Scott Florida, Adam, Russ, Jay Johnson

) Russ 00:02

All right syndication mentoring club. This is Russ and this is our Ask the mentors for September 2021. And we're
gonna be talking about sales and marketing. Right. That's the topic today. Good. And so I've got the chat open, if
you have questions, and you know, it’s hard to ask the questions. These types of questions, it's hard to ask on chat, so
just let me know that you have a question so | can make sure | can see you because | can't see everybody. But first of
all, welcome to everybody who's here for the very first time. We do many of these calls each and every month on
different topics operations, sales and marketing clues in the news, Robert does want on deals we do one with
Mauricio on legal we could do another one with Kevin day on asset protection. In fact, everybody should save the
date, October 12. At 50m Pacific, Kevin and | are going to be doing a in depth webinar on asset protection structures
for syndicators because it was a very popular topic. And we only had about 15 minutes to cover it at the secrets of
successful syndication. So be prepared for that. That was actually the announcement that | was busy working on. So
that'll be coming out here shortly. It’s only for syndication mentoring club members and alumni of the secrets of
successful syndication training. So it's not open to the public. Of course, SMC Members, we're going to record it and
it'll remain on the platform syndication alumni will be able to participate, but they won't be able to see it again,
unless they joined the club, which is what we hope they do. So those of you that already joined, thank you for being
here. All right. With that out of the way, I'm just going to jump right into the questions and then want to make sure |
give everybody time to do that. So Brad, you're first in queue, you have a question? What is your question?

© Brad Niebuhr 01:49

So my question is, and | would, I'm open to everybody's feedback in the room here. What's your thoughts on when
you're reaching out to your network of investors, you're touching the list? Where's the fine line where it's too much?
Where they just start avoiding your emails and just sending them out? Like, hey, this guy just sends way too much
crap, | don't have time to read his stuff. Or when's it not enough where, you know, they're, they’re wanting more. So |
there's got to be some kind of thing like, like, it's once a month, not enough is once a week or twice a week too much.
I'm just trying to figure out like when we start. So | haven't done my newsletter in a while, but | want to, | want to get
things dialed in and structured a little better, and figure out what the sweet spot is, and contacting our investors and

our network.
solid. And | would like to get my hands on that for a lot of reasons. So if you can, | don't know if Robert hazard or
Steve Miller has it. But I've got Silvana working on getting me a call with Steve about how to win funds and influence
people. So let's start with Steve. And then if he doesn't have it, then we can enquire with Robert. Anyway, so it’s not
there yet, Kevin. But it is on our list. So we'll let you know as soon as it is. Okay, and then and then step says is
looking for Jay Johnson. So Jay, do you have a question? And we'll make this the last one since we're top of hour.

@ Jay Johnson 57:38

Yeah, we're also kind of piggybacks on what you're just speaking about. And | guess I'll just use you as an example,
because you were here, but it could apply to a number of people that you meet at events or presenters or anything.
You are essentially the hunted Dave Zooks of the world or the hunted, etc. Brad and Emily did a great job last night,
having Damien Lupo on one of their meetup groups, and | was curious your perspective of how do you think you
know, for folks at this level of getting started and trying to find ways to do co branding and such. How do you think
you get in position to earn the right to invite folks like that, that are much bigger fish in the pond, to come say, join
your groups on webinars and such things as you can start to?

© Russ 58:23

Well, you've already earned the right first of all, because you're a member of the club, right? So there's, there's there's
people right now, when Robert and | started, | was a nobody. And Robert had a following nothing like what we have
today, but he had a following. And because | was there to help him, he put me on stage, and we cross endorsed each
other. And after a while, my skills, my hustle, my value add became apparent, and my endorsement for him meant
more. But the endorsement the power of my brand was being built by Robert endorsing me it was a cross
endorsement, | wouldn't, Robert would endorse me, | would endorse Robert and so by Robert endorsing me, he was
actually building his own brand without tooting his own horn. Okay. Now the other thing is is you've learned with
Brad and Emily and Bronson Hill who's not a member of the club but should be so if you guys get a chance to know
Bronson Bronson came to a create your future event came to something else | think he came to the firearms training
thing and and then he hit me up and asked me Hey, do you want to be on my show? And he | don't know he got a
couple other notable people. And so the way you do it like if for example, if you were to do a piece of content and
put it out there because you're a syndication mentoring club and inner circle, it's just a lay down for you if your inner
circle it’s a given I'll be there right? But | would do it and so then when | do it, then what you do is you leverage the
fact that I’m doing it to get two or three other peoples Hey, | got Russell gray from the coast of the real estate guys
radio show to be on this panel. Do you want to be on the panel too, and so they don’t even know who You are but
didn't matter, right? They're gonna they're gonna know who | am. Or at least they might know who | am the big look
me up and I'm going to show up, you know, to a degree of credibility. And then to go, | want to be on that platform
too. And you get two or three people together and they're all promoting because they all want to be seen with
whoever's The most notable person on there. And you're getting credit for all of it. And all you have to do is ask good
questions. You don't even have to have anything to say. So there was a gal in the San Jose Bay Area, she passed
away, which is super sad, named Geraldine Berry. And she built a whole investor club live meetup club, doing nothing
but inviting guest speakers and just organizing it and emceeing it. Now, eventually, she became a teacher, Robert,
and | did the same thing. But Robert was the main speaker, and | was just kind of running in the background a little
by little | got to the front of the room, but | didn’t start out in the front of the room.

© Brad Niebuhr 1:00:54

| can add to that, Russ real quick. So Jay, so like, last night, we had to meet up with Damian, we've had other people
on there that it’s not, I'm not asking them to be there, we are bringing them value. So why would they not want to be
there? Like last night? I'm sure Damian probably got four new customers out of presenting to us. So | didn't really ask
getting anything, you have to give it all to the investor because you're giving them a big tax benefit. So | kind of
digressed a little bit but the point there is is that when you're when you're profiling your investors when you are
working through whatever opportunity even an unsubscribe that leads to a conversation Your mission is to continue
to do your sales technique and uncover needs wants desires, goals and objectives, not just ones you can meet
through whatever your offering of the day is but things that you might meet in the future or you might be able to
help them through your network. Okay, so there's that all right, Matthew, you got a great big long thing in here. I'm
just going to call on you and let you tell me what it says.

Staci Gray 19:17

| don't think he has a microphone so

Russ 19:19

that would be a problem. So okay, since I'm new, so if my question is not relevant, today’s topic that's okay, well,
that's okay. I’m considering using the syndication Pro software since we're on the topic of marketing. | know the
software is no marketing, offering a marketing platform linking with things like MailChimp, | believe. Do you guys
recommend this or would you prefer to keep marketing in a separate platform? In the event you don't like syndication
pro? Okay, well, I'm not gonna have any comments. Good, bad or ugly on syndication pro because | haven't gotten
into the weeds of looking at it. | think Staci has and she may have some comments there, but generally speaking, you
know, again, marketing and selling are two different functions and all a lot of times when we talk about organizing
your database, people get a marketing automation software conflated with customer relationship management
software, those are two very different things. So | always use the example of Infusionsoft as being a marketing
optimization automation software, like an AWeber, or is better than a Weber My opinion is, it's more robust, or a
MailChimp, or some of these companies like that, that are really designed to help people talk to the masses and sell
something online. But that's not your business. So you have to marry it to something that is going to allow you to
build a profile, an index of investors that you can then data mined by specific personal criteria. And again, if you just
use that investor registry form that's either on the refund site, or the real estate guy site is kind of a way to
understand what some of your custom fields might be. Now you're going to custom tailor very targeted marketing
campaigns to develop interests that you uncover, to build up a case for a small group of people in that list. And a lot
of the information you're going to uncover is going to come from live personal interactions, email exchanges, you
have individually not group, not one way communication dialogues. And again, I'm not a big fan of dialoguing on
email. But | understand I’m an old dog, and a lot of younger folks are comfortable just texting back and forth and
emailing back and forth. But I'm still a big fan of picking up the phone and trying to be live if | can, in person even
better. But the point is, is that it's personal. And so you have to have software that's going to support that. And then
besides the sales and marketing side, so | talked about marketing, which is communicating to people with the idea
that that's going to lead to a sales engagement, which is a conversation, a consultation interview. And then the sales
automation software, which is where your CRM software, I’m sorry, where you're going to be managing the
conversation and all the information, linking documents, keeping track of tax videos, social profiles, documents, that
they filled out, whatever it is all that is going to be linked to their individual profile. And you're going to have a
customized database where you can keep track of all this, this individual personal information is really going to drive
your personal conversations, then you're going to have your business automation software, which is going to be
keeping track of your deals and making sure that your reports get out on time. And that you can give people investor
updates and conform with your compliance. Is it possible to buy one piece of software that is all things to all
functions, maybe pretty much purveyors of the software will tell you they can do it all my experience so far has been
usually they're really good at one part of it not so good at another part of it, and the work it takes to integrate

software so that it will it will perform your core functions like a mail merge, where you're going to attach documents
to run that. Now, if you're using your website primarily to be a lead capture, and your or it’s basically a brochure. So
in other words, if someone you give a business card to wants to check you out, or learn more about your company,
they visit your domain, you should have something that looks professional, you have to have something that explains
who you are, what you do, probably how you do it, why you do it. And some reason to engage in some way, whether
it's as simple as just getting on the list, or asking for a consultation, | think probably the best is some type of a free
piece of content, because it doesn't make them feel like they're going to get soammed, even though they might
doesn't make them feel like they're going to get a phone call, even though they might, you can make a phone

number optional. | like phone number optional on contact forms. Because if someone gives you a phone number, it
tells you the type of person they are, they're not afraid of engagement or are interested in having a conversation,
someone doesn't give you a phone number, then it tells you that they're a little bit more shy, a little bit more reserved,
maybe a little bit more cynical, or just not ready to act. But they'll get on your list, then you send them a nurturing,
whatever your nurturing is. So but at the same time, your website needs to be something that reflects your, your
brand, mission vision values. Because otherwise, you're Waldo, you look like every one of 10 zillion people out there
that are all this and that if you try to, you know, act big when you're small, then all you're doing is setting yourself up
for disappointment, | think leverage what you have, when you're small, you're nimble, you're responsive, your
personal, your niche, he, when you're big, you know that you have a whole different way of positioning yourself, but
you have to take the best of who you actually are, rather than trying to pretend who you're not. And then you have to
ask yourself if they're out there talking to other people, because you can bet they are. Then you got to say how do |
compare to the other people? What makes me different? Or what Kyle Wilson says, What's my secret sauce? What is
my secret sauce? | mean, ours is education for effective action. That's who we are. Real Estate guys are education for
effective action. Which means that you know, we're not trying to sell you anything. We don't have a big course no
books and tapes, you know, we have a few things that we do. And the main thing that we do syndication mentoring
club, and the other main thing we do is resort property development. Neither one of those are part of the show.
Neither one of those are part of what we talk about, really. People eventually get there. We've done a lot of business
out of our audience, but but we never lead with that. And so we say,

Scott Florida 48:27
Thank you.

Russ 48:27
Yeah, okay,

Scott Florida 48:28
that's it. That's great.

Russ 48:29

Okay. Let's see, we got eight more minutes. So happy to keep going or we can just call it anybody got anything they
want to ask sales and marketing. Are you out there talking to Michael mead? You had something in there, but | think
it was just something to Sep? Yeah.

Michael Meade 48:45
Staci Gray 26:50

It does have a CRMcomponent inside of the investor portal. And then the marketing one does too, but it's more in
group profiling than it is an individual profiling the investor portal, does individual profiling, the marketing

automation does group profiling.

Russ 27:05

Yeah, | think the big takeaway, and the thing that | see people really struggle in for whatever reason they don't get it.
is that there's marketing, and they're selling, and they are two very different things. And even though your marketing
can lead to some sales, it really shouldn't. You have to develop personal relationships with people at this level in this
game. You have to talk with them, you have to ask them questions, they have to feel your empathy, you have to know
their heart, you have to know why they care about their money and what they're doing. They have to see you care
about them as a human being. It is your USP, you've got two things working for you. Number one is that you're
dealing in real assets, Main Street, investing in Main Street. And number two is you're a real human being and you
care about them, they are not just an account number, they are not just some name and email address in a
database, they're not just you know, even though you look at the if you understand what happens in like the in Wall
Street, you have the the banks that deal with the masses, but the minute you have any net worth, all of a sudden,
you're being pitched over to the private client, the private banking, you know, the relationship manager, and then
eventually they're trying to get you in where you have a personal financial advisor. So they, the minute they realize
you have substance, they try to get personal with you. Right, you have to do the same thing, because that's what
you're competing against. If you think you're just gonna build a list and send out a bunch of emails, you may capture
some low hanging fruit, but trust me, whatever you get out of that, you've left 10 times, maybe 100 times more in the
database that you're not getting to. And your your ability to pull through those frontline investors and get referrals
and penetrate networks and identify influencers and fend off influencers that could be hostile to what you're doing
all that disappears if you're not having conversations. And so if you take the things you learn and how to win friends
and influence people right now that training is available to you in the platform, you don't have to wait until we do it
live. Now I'll tell you right now, the video is crappy. The guy that shot it did a terrible job, we reshot it, and it's in post
right now. And it's going to take a bit before it gets done. But it’s going to be a heck of a lot better but it’s better than
nothing. And then we'll be doing the class again, | think in May so but you shouldn't wait. You should start really
mastering you know the the techniques of good selling but just understand those two things. And then the other
thing is just dealing with your own psychology as a new person, especially if you don't have sales experience. You are
going to find every administrative excuse in the world to hide from getting into conversations. So you you absolutely
positively must make a commitment. to yourself, to talk to a minimum number of people every week, have a target
number, and drive towards that target every week and hold yourself accountable. Because if you're not talking to
people, if you are not having conversations with prospective investors perspective and influencers, you don't have to
have a deal. You don't have to have anything because you're not there to talk you there to listen. You're there to ask
questions. Pivot off the news. What do you think about the situation in evergrande? It's in the news. What do you
think about the idea that all these people are going to be quitting because they don’t want to get the vaccine? How
do you think that'll affect the economy? What do you think the Federal Reserve is going to do? What do you think
about the stock market, just taking a second mega dump in the last 30 days? any concerns about that? See what
they say. Now, of course, you should be reading, you should be paying attention, you should be getting into
conversation with friendlies among yourselves. You should be listening to podcasts of influencers that have the type
of demographic if you go back to the secrets of successful syndication, and | do the build your brand, build your
network. And of course, you can rewatch that module as many times as you want to, it’s in the platform. And you can
pull out that one page with the target market on it. You say, who is my target market? Who am | trying to talk to?
What do they need? Well, | don't know what they need. Okay, well, then you need to listen to them to figure out what
they need. But who are they listening to? Who influences them? Are they listening to Peter Schiff? Are they listening
to Robert Kiyosaki? Are they listening to George gammon? Are they listening to, you know, pick, whatever, what are

they interested in? And it doesn’t matter if they're interested in what you do, or what you don't do, what matters is
people were going to figure it out anyway. And rather than pretend to be something | wasn't, | just wear it like a
badge of honor, maybe to a fault. But | learned so much from everything that went wrong. So don't be afraid to talk
about lessons learned from a deal that went sideways. If in fact you're dealing with that. Just make sure that you're
demonstrating that you learned the lesson and that you're a leader that you take responsibility that you mitigate,
you know, you don't fall on your sword or take too much blame. But just remember that those are all the different
types of things that you're trying to communicate and you're talking to the heart into the head at the same time. And
so even though you're you feel like you're talking to a mass group of people, | think one of the big mistakes is to try to
have something for everybody. And really just focus on who it is you're really trying to attract. And if you track some
other people, that's fine. | mean, it’s some stuff that you're writing for your target market, you're A-Lister, if you will,
stick to a B or C Lister, that’s okay. But | wouldn't, | wouldn't dilute what I'm trying to say to the A to the center of the
target to try to please somebody that's at a C or D rank. Does that make sense? So that's uh, that's my comment. So
there's some stuff here in the chat. Sep is your comment related to Brad? | want to stay on this topic with Brad if

anybody has any feedback or comments.

® Sep Bekam 09:28

Hey, Ross. Yes, it is. I'm in a notary right now. So | can't | can't talk for like next 10 minutes. | did have a question

towards in the call, but it is it is relevant.

Russ 09:37

Okay, well, then you keep doing your notarizing because you're a notable guy. And we'll we'll just trudge forward. So
Brad, did you have any other follow up questions? did that. Did that give you what you're looking for?

Brad Niebuhr 09:49
No, that’s that was great. Yeah.

Russ 09:51

Okay. Anybodyelse have any feedback or comments or questions related to that topic before we move on?

Adam 09:57

| think he said his comment in the chat. Yeah.

Russ 10:02
What's that?

Adam 10:03
| think? Yeah, thanks, Adam. Go ahead. Seps questions in the chat. And it was what happens if somebody

unsubscribes but they expressed interest in investing with you previously?
